Nigeria's made-to-measure capital, Abuja was founded during the boom years of the 1970s. After the divisive Biafran War, the decision was made to move the capital from Lagos to the ethnically neutral centre of the country. Clean, quiet and with a good electricity supply, sometimes Abuja hardly feels like Nigeria at all. There's not much to do, but it's a good place to catch your breath and do some visa shopping.
Abuja has a range of hotels, with mainly upmarket options geared to business people. The city tends to empty at weekends, with people leaving for more exciting destinations, so many hotels offer discounts for Friday and Saturday nights. However, accommodation is generally pricey.
Hotel restaurants in Abuja are generally reliable if unexciting options. This is a good city to seek out Chinese and Indian restaurants if you need some culinary variety.
Drinks are pricey in Abuja – the Maitama district to the north of town is home to fancier hotels and clubs.
Budget: Less than US$75
Abuja tends to be a sharp contrast against the background of the rest of Nigeria. While car hijackings and armed robbery are high in Lagos, and kidnapping of foreign oil workers is prevalent in the Niger delta, Abuja in sharp contrast, is one of the safest metropolitan cites in Nigeria.

General security measures like elsewhere in the world should be observed. Like anywhere else in the world, it's always a good idea to have company when exploring unfamiliar places. If you're driving, observe simple measures like keeping your car door locked when parked to avoid opportunistic crime. Armed robbery at gun point is the most prevalent form of crime. A calm disposition and full cooperation with robbers is the best line of action in the unlikely event that you are the victim of a robbery.

Robbers tend to become violent when victims try to pull tricks. Contact your embassy in Abuja and the police if you are robbed. Occasional pick pockets target mobile phones and wallets as well. Do not carry large amounts of cash. Usually, $250 US cash (or N30,000) would more than suffice for impulsive purchases and other daily costs.

Use only the official Green Cabs. Drivers of regular cars frequently cruise around seeking paying passengers; accepting such a ride is dangerous and passengers have been robbed in this manner. Stick with licensed green cabs. Cab fares would be around N500 ($4) for trips within the city. Cab rides to the airport are significantly higher. Negotiate a fare before you enter a cab.

There have been many reports of fraudulent use of credit card details almost immediately after people have used their cards to pay hotel deposits, even in the very top hotels.

Bargaining is a handy skill in Nigeria, whether you're shopping in a market or negotiating with a taxi driver: always ask the price before getting in. You may be able to negotiate a deal when booking a hotel room.

There are moneychangers in each town and they are almost always Hausa.
Drinks are available all over Abuja and are very overpriced. Average $20 US for some mixed drinks. 5-9 dollars for a local beer. Buy beer from the Market and you will save a lot of money. The major hotels have bars and restaurants - watch out for the call girls, if you ignore them, they get really offended. If you are not interested, just say so and have a short conversation, then they will leave you alone.
Western Union branches are useless unless you have a Nigerian bank account.
Travel with Children
While children will be treated kindly in Nigeria, you may find the practicalities difficult. The broken pavements are very difficult for prams, and public toilets tend to be dire, with no baby-change facilities. Bus journeys are hot and crowded, with few loo breaks.
Abuja is a beautiful city. The tourist attractions would be:
Go shopping at Wuse Market, the main market in Abuja. Everything is available, from fresh food to clothes, music, and electronics. And as markets go, not expensive.
Art & Craft village (across the road from Sheraton Hotel)
Food prices in Abuja are high, especially for Western food. There are, however, many good restaurants in Abuja that are arguably worth the money. The Wuse II area is arguably the restaurant hub for Abuja, with new places opening and closing frequently. Of course, whether you live in Abuja or are just visiting, there are times when you are willing to pay a little extra for the simple fact that there are few to no alternatives.

Currency Museum of the Central Bank of Nigeria[33] This small museum, located inside the modern Central Bank of Nigeria building, shows the history of currency used in modern Nigeria as well as ancient mediums of exchange used in west Africa.
The Abuja Millennium Park is being expanded in an ambitious tourist project to include the Millennium Tower and a Cultural Center and Museum that would boast of some of the most expansive collections of African Art. As of February 2009, the Millenium tower is several years from completion.
Other upcoming projects include the Heritage City Theme Park that would be the largest theme park of African civilizations.
Child-friendly sights:

Lekki Conservation Centre Climb the canopy walkways to get close to the monkeys in this wetland reserve.

Afi Mountain Drill Ranch Watch drill monkeys and a very lively chimpanzee up close in Calabar.

Osun Sacred Grove Vervet monkeys scamper through the trees of the grove, but thankfully the snakes and alligators stay well hidden.
Abuja features a tropical wet and dry climate with a warm and humid season and a blistering dry season. Precipitation measure 1.221,2mm on average. The dry season lasts from November to March and it's characterised by scorching heat, clear skies and occassional sandstorms caused by the harmattan wind. High temperatures are around 35°C (95°F) and lows are around 15°C (59°F), meaning large temperature variations between day and night. Maxima do reach 40°C (104°F) on occasion and nights can be cool sometimes, with minima dropping to 10°C (50°F). The warm and humid season lasts from April to October and is characterised by sweltering days, cool nights and pouring rain. Days still have highs around 30°C (86°F), but the feeling of the heat is much stronger, due to very high relative humidity. Nights have lows usually around 20°C (68°F)
Used freely as both a noun and a verb, 'dash' is a word you'll hear a lot in Nigeria. It can mean either a bribe or a tip. The most frequent form of dash you're likely to encounter is at police roadblocks. In large-scale corruption, money is referred to as 'chopped' (literally 'eaten'). Although you're actually unlikely to be asked for dash as a bribe, dashing someone who performs a service for you, such as a guide or driver, is often appropriate.