Ghana's beating heart probably won't inspire love letters, but you might just grow to like it. The capital's hot, sticky streets are perfumed with sweat, fumes and yesterday's cooking oil. Like balloons waiting to be burst, clouds of dirty humidity linger above stalls selling mangoes, banku (fermented maize meal) and rice. The city's tendrils reach out towards the beach, the centre and the west, each one a different Ghanaian experience.
The city doesn't have any heavy-hitting sights like Cape Coast or Elmina but it does have good shopping, excellent nightlife and definitely the best selection of eating options in Ghana.
There are no must-sees in Ghana's capital, but the National Museum provides an interesting introduction to the country's history and culture.
Accra has plenty of quality accommodation, particularly at the upper end of the scale, with new options opening often.
Accra has the best choice of restaurants in the country, and there's an ever-increasing supply of hip dining spots that wouldn't seem out of place in London or New York. Osu, Labone and the Airport Residential Area have the widest choice of restaurants, but if you're not fussy you'll find the ubiquitous chop bars everywhere around town.

You'll also find supermarkets, cafes and fast-food outlets at the Accra Mall.
Accra's drinking scene is a moving target: new bars open every couple of months and you'll find everything from chic cocktail bars to pubs to pumping live-music venues.
Bargaining is a way of life in Ghana and prices at craft stalls and in markets are definitely negotiable.
Eat out at one of Osu's many trendy restaurants. Osu, a suburb of Accra, is known for its nightlife and a wide variety of eateries, hotels, and several options for entertainment.

A concept lifestyle eatery, Café Dez Amis is situated close to Osu, next door to Jubilee House and the French embassy. Offering gourmet coffees, sandwiches and salads, as well as cold fresh juices, and ice cream, it has become a hotspot in town, from 7AM till 10PM. Breakfast and fresh baked breads and pastries are available all day. There is also an outside cocktail bar, serving Mojitos and other cocktails from all over the world.It also has wireless access.

Located in Labone near the Metro TV building, "Maquis Tante Marie" is a restaurant serving a variety of African cuisines in a pleasant garden setting.

Frankie's on Oxford Street in Osu is a popular oasis for tourists in Accra. Offering accommodation, a restaurant, salad bar, ice cream and a bakery/pastry shop.

Other popular eateries in Osu include Livingstone Safari Restaurant, Haveli (Indian Cuisine), Papaye (Fast Food), Asanka Locals(Traditional Ghanaian Cuisine) and Noble House Restaurant (Indian and Chinese Cuisine).

National Museum. Highly worthwhile, the National Museum offers visitors a look at Ghanaian history and culture from prehistory to the present. Cultural exhibits include clothing, thrones, carvings, paintings, pottery, and a variety of instruments and tools used in various rituals. Each of these is accompanied by descriptions of their significance and meaning, so you can learn a lot if you take the time read them! Historical exhibits feature some of the most influential and important parts of Ghana's history, particularly the slave trade. There is also a fascinating exhibit of the history of the Ghanaian currency.  edit
Kwame Nkrumah Memorial Park. The park was created to honor Kwame Nkrumah, who led Ghana to its independence from Great Britain and became the nation's first president. Voted as Africa's "Man of the Millenium", he is a highly important figure of the 20th century. In the park you can see a monument dedicated to him, as well as his mausoleum, where he is buried and a small museum dedicated to him. Various trees in the park have been planted by visiting dignitaries.  edit
Independence Square. Also known as Black Star Square for the large black star located atop Independence Arch. The square celebrates Ghanaian independence from the British in 1957 and features an eternal flame first lit by Nkrumah himself in 1961.  edit
W.E.B. DuBois Memorial Centre, [1]. W.E.B. DuBois was a famous American author and Civil Rights activist who moved to Ghana near the end of his life feeling his efforts to create equality were all in vain and that America would never accept black people. Although the Centre itself is a research library, historical sites and monuments are scattered about amidst the learning centres. The most interesting of them being House Number 22, which is where W.E.B. DuBois resided when he moved to Ghana, and his grave.  edit
Kane Kwei Carpentry Workshop, Teshie First Junction (along the road, by a TOTAL gas station), [2]. This is the workshop of Seth Kane Kwei who invented the famous design coffins in the 1950's which are carved into shapes that represent something important and relevant to the deceased person, such as a fish, airplanes, etc. You will likely meet Eric Adjetey Anang, grandson of Kane Kwei, who has owned it since 2005 and hear stories about these fantastic coffins. They are used for funerals in the region and are part of many public or private collections of contemporary art around the world.  edit
The National Archives of Ghana.  edit
The Ghana Academy of Arts and Sciences
Artists Alliance Gallery, La Beach Rd (1 km west of La Beach Hotel). Artist-run gallery over 3 floors with sculptures, fabrics and paintings. Covers everything from cheap wooden artefacts for a few dollars to expensive paintings by top artists in Ghana. Big plus is being able to look, browse in a relaxed gallery without being hassled to buy.  edit
Ghana's Central Library
Osu Castle. Built by the Danes in the 17th century, it has changed hands under many rulers before the Danes were finally able to stake claim to the area and the castle. Before it was claimed by Denmark, it was used for trading precious metals, but once the Danes took power, it became a place to store slaves prior to shipping them. Later it became the headquarters of the Danish Gold Coast. Since that time, it has been used as a government building and when Ghana gained independence in 1957, it became the Presidential House. It remains the seat of government today, although there is controversy because of its ties to the slave trade. Visitors are able to go to the castle however, armed guards stand outside and they typically don't allow photos to be taken. Rules about pictures change sporadically, but it's best (safest) not to try.  edit
Labadi Beach - One of the most popular beaches in Accra for tourists. Located between two of Accra's most expensive hotels-- La Palm and La Badi Beach--this short stretch of the Atlantic Coast features several makeshift cafe-restaurants, lots of souvenir vendors, and if you are lucky (i.e. on good weather weekends) an amazing cast of characters who will entertain you with drumming, dancing, pony rides, and acrobatic performances. Some people actually go for a swim, but there's plenty to do on-shore. Don't miss it. (Warning: this is a prime-time venue, one highly "not recommended" after dark.) The beach is 'officially' accessible only from an entrance at La By-pass (Labadi Road) for a fee of GHC5. If you are a guest at La Palm or Labadi Beach Hotel you can access the beach for free through the back gate. Non-hotel guests can enjoy the facilities - pool, fitness, sauna - for GHC10 a day at La Palm Royal Beach Hotel.
Jamestown - Jamestown is the oldest part of Accra and remains an active fishing centre. It is similar in many ways to Zanzibar's Stone Town, though it has not yet been restored, so it is not typically highlighted on tourist itineraries. Despite this, for many visitors, it is one of the most memorable sights in the city and located the oldest hotel in Accra (Sea View Hotel) now reduced to a drinking bar. Jamestown is a short distance west from Independence Square; from the busy street the only real sights are the lighthouse, a prison building housed inside an old colonial fort(James Fort), and the old Customs House. From the lighthouse there is a road which takes you to the otherwise hidden delight: one of the largest working fishing harbours in Ghana. Go early in the morning and see dozens of small boats bring in the day's catch. It's best to find a friendly local guide so you don't miss the hidden alleys, old stone houses, and fantastic cliff-top harbor vistas.
University of Ghana - Ghana's largest university is in Legon and is accessible by Tro-Tros to Madina. It's a very charming and quiet place with old trees, a botanical garden (although you should be aware there have been reports of muggings and violent crime taking place in the gardens) and many small buildings surrounded by green grass. The Cafeterias are open to anybody and serve typical Ghanaian dishes. The La Raceway: a Go-karting circuit, Sports bar and Entertainment Centre is situated behind the Trade Fair Centre, near Labadi beach

Harbin's: a bowling alley in Teshie, about 8km (5 mi) from the city centre.

Swimming Pools: Sport swimmers find a pool in East Legon at A&C Mall [27] for GHC12 a day. Those who want to spend a relaxing day at a hotel pool can use the one of La Palm Royal Beach Hotel [28] for GHC30 a day.