Since its establishment in the 19th century, Addis Ababa has always seemed like a magical portal, a gateway to another world. For the rural masses of Ethiopia it was, and is, a city whose streets are paved in gold; for a foreign visitor, the gateway of Addis Ababa is at the verge of an ancient and mystical world. And yet, Addis – Africa’s fourth-largest city and its diplomatic capital – is also a traffic-choked, sprawling city of no discernible beauty that many foreign visitors try to transit as quickly as possible. But take note: by skipping out on the contradictions of this complex city you run the risk of failing to understand Ethiopia altogether. And apart from anything else, Addis is the best place in the country to sample Ethiopian food, and has some wonderful museums and places to stay.
One of the best things about Ethiopian food is that no other cuisine in the world is quite like it. Traditional cooking here blends unique combinations of spices to create distinct flavours: some hot, some savoury. Spices are the key ingredients for many types of Ethiopian wat (a dish somewhere between a stew and a curry) that are eaten with flat, spongy bread called injera.
Ethiopian restaurants can be found the world over, but none compare with the food made in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s sprawling capital. Vegetables are locally sourced, and the meat typically comes from freshly killed animals. Nothing here is mass produced, and every dish is made fresh to order. Addis Ababa is the best place in the country to try Ethiopian food, and these are five of the top restaurants where you can dig into the local scene.
You won’t go thirsty in Addis Ababa. Sip some of the world’s best (and cheapest) coffee, down a healthy juice or simply sway home after swallowing your share of tej.
Addis is currently experiencing a mass spawning of cafes. At the centre of the scene are the Piazza and Bole Rd areas. Many are cookie-cutter rip-offs of Western-style coffee shops, but among the dross are some fine places – some recalling bygone days in small-town Italy, others are cool and hip hangouts for the city’s growing middle class.
Most of Addis Ababa’s cafes serve freshly squeezed juices or slushy blends of everything from strawberries to avocado, but you'll also come across some dedicated juice bars in the city.
Nightlife in Addis has settled into a nice rhythm – the good places are still good and still around, and the bad ones have fallen by the wayside.

While most nightclubs open as early as 9pm, there’s no point in arriving before midnight. Those open during the week close around 2am; things wrap up nearer to 5am on weekends. Cover charges vary between Birr50 and Birr100 at most venues, depending on the day (but are sometimes free). Expect to drop a minimum of Birr50 for a beer and Birr80 for a cocktail.
Addis Ababa’s bar scene is becoming ever more cosmopolitan and diverse, though remember this is still no Nairobi when it comes to the quantity and quality of bars – many are hole-in-the-wall dives where all but the most thick-skinned would feel uneasy. However, a growing middle class and increasing numbers of expats have led to some swanky joints, the majority of which are found in and around Bole Rd.

Small local drinking holes charge Birr30 for a bottle of beer, while established bars can charge up to Birr50. Most places are open until 2am during the week, and 5am on the weekend.
If authentic experiences are what you’re after, there’s no better place than a tej bet to down the famed golden elixir (honey wine). Most are open from 10am to around 10pm, but are busiest in the evening. They’re the traditional haunt of men, so women should keep a low profile. They never have signs, so you’ll have to ask locals to point them out.
You lucky, lucky souls…you’ve either just stepped off a plane (Welcome to Ethiopia! Lucky you!) and can experiment with your first genuine Ethiopian meals, or you’ve just arrived from several weeks in Ethiopia’s wilds (How amazing was that?! Lucky you!) and can now say goodbye to repetitive injera and wat (stew) and sloppy pasta. Middle Eastern or Italian? French or Ethiopian? It’s all here for you to enjoy.
This area, taking in Bole Rd, Cameroon St (sometimes called Namibia St) and environs is the undisputed culinary centre of the capital. This is where the city's well-to-do and expats like to hang out, so you can expect high quality and higher than normal prices. Food types from around the world are represented here as well as flash Western-style coffee shops by the dozen.
Eating Out in Addis
Eating out in Addis Ababa is a pleasurable affair, but there are some tricks worth knowing.

For a start, many restaurants, particularly the smarter ones, add a 15% tax and 10% service charge to their bills; check before you order.

Some restaurants also offer a ‘traditional experience’: traditional food (called ‘national food’) in traditional surroundings with traditional music in the evening. You sit in short traditional Ethiopian chairs, eating from a communal plate on a mesob (Ethiopian table).

If you feel more adventurous, try a kitfo bet, typically ignored by tourists. These restaurants usually serve little other than kitfo (minced beef or lamb like the French steak tartare, usually served warmed – but not cooked – in butter, the red, spicy powder berbere and sometimes thyme).

If meat isn’t your thing, you’ll love Wednesdays and Fridays when 'fasting' food (a variety of vegetarian dishes) is served by all Ethiopian restaurants.

Cafes and pastry shops are omnipresent in Addis, and you’ll find them perfect for an afternoon or early-morning pick-me-up.
Activities in Addis are generally pretty sedate and are aimed more at business people than backpackers. Then again, who can complain about a heavenly massage, steam bath or sauna? Swimming and horse riding are also possible. Cooling swims are also justifiably popular.
If you want to run where the best of the best used to train, head to Meskal Sq to jog up and down the square along the concrete, terraced seating. If you complete the entire circuit, running up and down each aisle, you’ll have sweated through 42km.
Beat the heat with some underwater action. The sweetest swims in town are to be had at the Sheraton Hotel (Birr200/250 weekday/weekend) and the Hilton Hotel (Birr200, Mon-Thu, Birr250 Fri-Sun).
These mountains, just north of the city, are the site of Menelik’s former capital. You'll find a couple sights of interest and a great viewpoint. At the summit you're close to 3200m above sea level. On the way up you may pass by the Women Fuel Wood Carriers Project, an organisation set up to protect the rights of women gathering firewood on the mountain. Traditional clothing items, hats and baskets can be purchased. They can be difficult to find and there are no signs – the only way is to ask.

To get to Entoto, take a taxi or minibus to the terminus of Entoto Ave from Arat Kilo. From there another minibus will take you to Entoto Maryam Church. You might also be able to flag a minibus from Shiro Meda Market. If you're in Ethiopia on an organised tour and your time here involves a tour of Addis, your driver may well bring you up here – if not, ask.