The greater Auckland region encompasses the city proper and the gorgeous surrounding towns and landscapes.
It's rare that visitors restrict themselves solely to the city area. And why would you? There's plenty to see and do right in the heart of the city, but travelling further afield opens the opportunities considerably. You can't miss getting out onto the waters of the Hauraki Gulf and exploring its many islands. One of the closest to the mainland is Waiheke Island, home to emerald waters and world-class wineries. Further north lies Goat Island Marine Reserve, a thriving and accessible aquatic ecosystem.

The natural delights on offer go beyond the area's beautiful waters. Rainforests, thermal springs, sprawling parks and volcanic cones are just the start.
Auckland is situated in a temperate climate zone and, as such, does not experience hot or cold extremes at any time of year. The summer months are from December through to March. The sun is very strong during this time and it is advisable to use sunscreen and cover exposed skin from prolonged exposure.

April to June brings cooler temperatures and rain toward the end of June which persists through winter until September and October.

Westerly airstreams predominate throughout the year and it is not unusual to experience weather systems that affected Sydney and Melbourne just a few days before - nor is it unusual to see occasional high altitude haze from summer wildfires in Australia; making for spectacular sunsets.

Humid and moist conditions are usual in all seasons. There is no monsoon but tropical cyclones spin down from the Pacific Islands a couple of times a year bringing damaging winds and heavy rain. Rainfall is never far away especially outside the summer months - outdoor activities should be planned with an alternative inside option in case it rains at any time of year. Localised tornadoes occur infrequently in summer months (they have always occurred but only recently been reported as the areas where they occur have only been developed within the last decade).

Summer brings settled dry weather systems most years from early January - but being a maritime environment with no continental land mass it is not unusual to have wet summers also. Winter brings chilly temperatures and overnight frosts to sheltered suburban areas. Snow flurries are a once in a generation event.

Best time for beach swimming is between late December to May.
Auckland is surrounded by nature and much of it is free to enjoy. For days when rain sets in there are plenty of indoor recreation options.

Drive or walk up one of Auckland's many volcanic cones such as One Tree Hill or Mount Eden to experience panoramic views of the city, and to see sheep and cows in a major metropolitan area!
See what's on in in the city's entertainment precinct Aotea Centre, Auckland Town Hall and Civic Theatre (the incredible restored interior make this a must see). Nearby Sky City Cinemas offer the latest released movies in a world class multiplex. Large suburban centres also have multiplex cinema facilities - most notable of these is Sylvia Park with luxury movie watching options and one of the worlds largest 35mm projector screens. Sylvia Park is easily reached by car (Exit 438 from the Southern Motorway) or train or bus from Britomart (downtown) and Newmarket.
Catch a cricket or rugby match at New Zealand's largest sports stadium Eden Park. Bus or Train to nearby Kingsland station.
Climb the Auckland Harbour Bridge.
Do the Sky Jump, a cable controlled base jump from a height of 192m on the Sky Tower. Or try the Sky Walk, a walk around a 1.2m wide walkway 92m above the ground with no hand rails.
Take a ferry from downtown to the volcanic island of Rangitoto that stands prominently near the entrance to the Waitemata Harbour. Climb to the summit for fantastic views of the harbour and Auckland city. Take a picnic or have a swim.
Rent skates or a bicycle in Okahu Bay and take a scenic skate along Tamaki Drive. Combine with a visit to Kelly Tarltons and Mission Bay - well serviced by bus from the downtown Britomart transport hub.
Explore NZ, Viaduct Harbour Basin, [1]. Waitemata Harbour sailboat cruises on a boat from the Pride of Auckland fleet. Also offer a 2 hr Sailing Experience on an original America's Cup yacht or an excursion on a power catamaran to see whales and dolphins in the Hauraki Gulf Marine Park. Other activities are available.  edit
Auckland Sea Kayaks,infyaks.co.nz), [2]. Sea kayak to one of Auckland's volcanic islands like Rangitoto island day or night.  edit
Go to the beach. Mission Bay combines urban chic with beach (on Tamaki Drive further on from Kelly Tarltons).
From fashion districts to flea markets, department stores to malls and retail parks - shopping is as much a recreational activity for Aucklanders as watching for the latest sale (discount promotion) is a sport - big retailers are only too happy to oblige - widely advertised sales and offers are announced daily. Competition keeps prices reasonable - although supermarket (food) prices are expensive when compared with some countries in Europe.
The museum displays collections of significant importance and offers scenic views of the Waitemata Harbour and islands of the Hauraki Gulf from a prominent position in Auckland Domain.

It was constructed in the 1920s as a war memorial to those that fought and died in theatres of war. The cenotaph located on the grounds below the steps leading up to the museum entrance is the focal point for annual ANZAC day remembrance services. The top floor records names in stone as well as sobering tombs and lists of war events and their locations.

The museum contains excellent exhibitions of Maori and other Polynesian peoples' arts and crafts and daily Maori cultural performances (ground floor) as well as geography of the Auckland region.

The historically important winter gardens are nearby and well worth the short walk from the Museum to see impressive flower bed displays, tropical plants and statues (free).