Algiers (Al-Jazai¨r) never fails to make an impression. This is a city of rare beauty and of thrilling, disorientating and sometimes brutal contrast. The country's turbulent history is writ large in the city's richly textured architecture: wide French-built boulevards and elegant apartments and villas, Socialist-era monuments and public buildings, and an enduring Islamic heart secreted in the steep, hillside Casbah. Labyrinthine streets spill down to the yawning big blue of the Bay of Algiers, sea and sky and green ravines glimpsed at every step. Though people often spend just enough time in Algiers to organise an onward journey, it’s a fascinating place well worth at least a couple of days’ exploration.
Much of the enjoyment to be had in Algiers comes from clambering up its steep streets, strolling in the parks and taking in those views. That said, there are a number of sights and interesting museums to easily fill a few days.
City accommodation can be hard to find (book well ahead) and is seldom good value. Budget hotels cluster around Pl Port Said on the edge of the Casbah, though they're not for the faint-hearted.

At the time of research, a number of classic historical (and often government-owned) hotels such as the Hôtel Albert Premier and Hôtel Safir were closed for much needed renovations. In all cases they are expected to reopen at some point in 2018 at which time they are likely to be among the best places to stay in Algiers.
There's no shortage of cheap fast food around town and excellent bread and pastries from ubiquitous bakeries. Good seafood restaurants can be found along the Rampe de la Pêcherie near the port, as well as in the beach suburbs to the west. Most of city's more upmarket eating options are in leafy Hydra.

Many restaurants are closed on Friday, although a few reopen in the early evening.
Algiers is not a hard place to find a drink, though bars here aren't always a pleasant experience. Try the top-end or historic hotels for a bar with more class or character. On Friday (the Islamic holy day), it can be hard to find a drink at all outside of the hotels.
Use the harbour to get your bearings, along with Hotel el-Aurassi and the Matyr's Monument. Four main streets run parallel to the waterfront, changing names every 500m or so. The Casbah lies between Blvd de la Victoire and Rue Ahmed Bouzrina.
Algiers is the capital city of Algeria in North Africa. Algiers is located on a bay of the Mediterranean Sea and is an important port. Algiers was first settled over 1000 years ago and has now grown to a large city with a metropolitan population of over 3 million. Algiers has also been marred by violence in the past decade. Algiers is known locally as El-Djazaïr and the residents speak Berber, Arabic and French.