Golden Age canals lined by tilting gabled buildings are the backdrop for Amsterdam's treasure-packed museums, vintage-filled shops and hyper-creative design, drinking and dining scenes.
Amsterdam's canal-woven core is laced by atmospheric narrow lanes. You never know what you'll find: a tiny hidden garden; a boutique selling witty, stylised Dutch-designed homewares and fashion; a jewel-box-like jenever (Dutch gin) distillery; a flower stall filled with tulips in a rainbow of hues; an old monastery-turned-classical-music-venue; an ultra-niche restaurant such as an avocado or strawberry specialist or one reinventing age-old Dutch classics. Fringing the centre, post-industrial buildings in up-and-coming neighbourhoods now house creative enterprises, from art galleries to craft breweries and cutting-edge tech start-ups, as well as some of Europe's hottest clubs.

Admiring Art
You can't walk a kilometre without bumping into a masterpiece in the city. The Van Gogh Museum hangs the world's largest collection by tortured native son Vincent. A few blocks away, Vermeers, Rembrandts and other Golden Age treasures fill the glorious Rijksmuseum. The Museum het Rembrandthuis offers more of Rembrandt via his etching-packed studio, while the Stedelijk Museum counts Matisses and Mondrians among its modern stock. And for blockbuster displays, the Hermitage Amsterdam delivers: the outpost of Russia's State Hermitage Museum sifts through its three-million-piece home trove to mount mega exhibitions.

Two-wheeling is a way of life here. It's how Amsterdammers commute to work, go to the shop, and meet a date for dinner. Abundant bike-rental shops make it easy to gear up and take a spin. If locals aren't on a bike, they may well be on the water. With its canals and massive harbour, this city reclaimed from the sea offers countless opportunities to drift. Hop aboard a canal boat (preferably an open-air one) or one of the free ferries behind Centraal Station, or rent your own for a wind-in-your-hair ride.
Museums & Galleries
Amsterdam’s world-class museums draw millions of visitors each year. The art collections take pride of place – you can’t walk a kilometre here without bumping into a masterpiece. Canal-house museums are another local speciality. And, of course, the free-wheeling city has a fine assortment of oddball museums dedicated to everything from hash to houseboats.


The Dutch Masters helped spawn the prolific art collections around town. You’ve probably heard of a few of these guys: Johannes Vermeer, Frans Hals and Rembrandt van Rijn. They came along during the Golden Age when a new, bourgeois society of merchants and shopkeepers were spending money to brighten up their homes and workplaces with fresh paintings. The masters were there to meet the need, and their output from the era now fills the city’s top museums.

The Netherlands’ maritime prowess during the Golden Age also filled the coffers of local institutions. Silver, porcelain and colonial knick-knacks picked up on distant voyages form the basis of collections in the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam Museum, Het Scheepvaartmuseum and Tropenmuseum.

There are two kinds: the first preserves the house as a living space, with sumptuous interiors that show how the richest locals lived once upon a time, as at Museum Van Loon. The other type uses the elegant structure as a backdrop for unique collections, such as the Kattenkabinet for cat art.

Van Gogh and the Golden Age masters grab all the glory, but Amsterdam's art scene goes well beyond them. Several contemporary galleries dot the city, providing outlets for avant-garde and emerging artists. Many galleries, such as W139 in the Red Light District, began as squats and then moved into the mainstream over the years. Gallery-dense neighbourhoods include the Jordaan and the Southern Canal Ring.

Queues at the Van Gogh Museum, Rijksmuseum, Anne Frank Huis and others can easily reach an hour, particularly in summer. Want to avoid the mobs? Here are some strategies:

Go late Queues are shortest during late afternoon and evening. Visit after 3pm for the Rijksmuseum and Van Gogh Museum (also open Friday nights), and after 6pm for the Anne Frank Huis (open late nightly in summer).

Cycling is by far the most popular activity in Amsterdam, and a great way to experience local life. With so many picturesque waterways, boating is also ideal for exploring the city. Amsterdam's beautiful parks, from the famous Vondelpark and rambling forest Amsterdamse Bos to smaller havens like De Pijp's Sarphatipark, are favourite playgrounds for locals.

By Bike
Bicycles are more common than cars in Amsterdam, and to roll like a local you'll need a two-wheeler. Rent one from the myriad outlets around town or your accommodation, and the whole city becomes your playground. Cycling is the quintessential activity while visiting.

Cafés When the Dutch say café they mean a pub, and there are more than 1000 throughout Amsterdam. In a city that values socialising and conversation more than the art of drinking itself, cafés aren't just about consuming alcohol: they're places to hang out for hours of contemplation or camaraderie. Scores of cafés have outside seating on terrassen (terraces), which are glorious in summer and sometimes covered and heated in winter. Most serve food as well, ranging from snacks and sandwiches to excellent meals.

Bruin Cafés Amsterdam is famed for its historic bruin cafés (brown cafes; traditional drinking establishments). The name comes from the nicotine stains from centuries of use (although recent aspirants slap on brown paint to catch up). Occasionally you'll find sand on the wooden floor to soak up spilt beer. Most importantly, the city's brown cafes provide an atmosphere conducive to conversation – and the nirvana of gezelligheid (conviviality, cosiness).

Grand Cafés These are spacious, have comfortable furniture and are, well, grand. They all have food menus, some quite elaborate. Despite the name, there's no need to dress up for a visit to a grand café.

Theatre Cafés Often similar to grand cafés, these are normally attached or adjacent to theatres, serving meals before and drinks after performances. Generally they're good places to catch performers after the show, though they're lovely any time of day.

Amsterdam is banging on Berlin's door to claim the mantle of Europe's clubbing capital. The electronic music extravaganza Amsterdam Dance Event is a fixture on the city's calendar, and in 2012, nightclub promoter Mirik Milan became Amsterdam's (and the world's) inaugural nachtburgemeester (night mayor), representing and encouraging the city's nightlife and economy.

Inner-city clubs are integrating into the social fabric, and epic venues (including some with new 24-hour licences) are opening in repurposed buildings outside the city centre to avoid noise, and are reachable by public transport. In addition to club nights, they mount multi-genre art exhibitions, markets and other diverse cultural offerings.

Amsterdam is famously gezellig, a Dutch quality that translates roughly as 'convivial' or 'cosy'. It's more easily experienced than defined. There's a sense of time stopping, an intimacy of the here-and-now that leaves your troubles behind, at least until tomorrow. The easiest place to encounter this feeling is a bruin café (brown cafe; traditional drinking establishment). Named for their wood panelling and walls once stained by smoke, brown cafes have gezelligheid (cosiness) on tap, along with good beer. You can also feel gezellig lingering after dinner in snug restaurants while the candles burn low.