Athens is the capital city of Greece with a metropolitan population of 3.7 million inhabitants. It is in many ways the birthplace of Classical Greece, and therefore of Western civilization. The design of the city is marked by Ottoman, Byzantine and Roman civilizations.
The climate of Athens falls within the subtropical Mediterranean classification, with moderate rainfall.


For the best views of Athens, head to the top of Lykavittos Hill. You can either walk from Kolonaki (the path starts 15 minutes from Evangelismos metro stop, and will take 30 minutes to talk up the winding, but paved and not steep, path) or you can take the funicular railway (7€ for a 2 way trip as of Aug 2012) from the top of Ploutarchou Street in Kolonaki. Either way, be sure to wear flat shoes, and bring lots of water in the summer! From the top you can see the whole city, the port of Piraeus and, on a clear day, the island of Aegina and the Peloponnese. Have a drink at the cafe there, and pay a visit to the chapel of St George.
If you're lucky enough to be in Athens for the Easter Weekend, you'll see the spectacular sight of hundreds of people making their candlelit way down the hill on Easter Saturday night as part of the Easter Vigil procession.
There is a ticket available at relevant sites that give admission to the most popular sites such as the Acropolis and Temple of Olympian Zeus for €30. If you're a student, almost all admission costs are halved; but the cards are properly looked at and one out-of-date won't pass. This ticket is good for five days, but re-entry is not allowed.
Athens Open Top Bus Tour, Departs: Syntagma Square, [2]. 90 minutes. If you wish to dedicate your sightseeing efforts to the centre of Athens then the standalone Athens Open Tour is just the ticket. This hop-on hop-off service provides unlimited, excellent value transport around the Greek capital's essential landmarks and attractions. €15.00.  edit
Landmarks

The Tower of the Winds and the ruins of the Roman Forum

The Parthenon at the Acropolis

Guard ceremony in Syntagma Square

The Temple of Olympian Zeus and Hadrian's Gate seen from the Acropolis
The Acropolis, a Unesco World Heritage Site, [52] was the ancient fortified town of Athens, dating back to the Late Bronze Age, and the site of the best buildings of the Greek Classical age: the Parthenon, the Erectheion, the Temple of Athena Nike. Acropolis dominates the Athenian sky and symbolizes the foundation of modern culture and civilization. As the most famous landmark of entire Greece, Acropolis is the eternal symbol of democracy, education and inspiration. If you attend a university in the European Union, bring your ID and you can enter for free. The normal entrance price to the Acropolis and its slopes, including the Parthenon and the Theatre of Dionysus, is 20 euros, or 10 reduced (including non-EU students, as of May 2016--seems to be a recent price hike as much tourist literature provided in local hotels still has the old, much lower prices listed). A 30 euro ticket (15 reduced) also gives you entry to the Kerameikos, the Temple of Olympian Zeus, Roman Agora, Ancient Agora, and Hadrian's Library, as well as Aristotle's Lyceum which is a little further away next to the Byzantine and Christian Museum. Also be aware that although the Acropolis is open until 20:00 in the summer, the other sites have earlier closing times; the 30 euro ticket is good for 5 days, but does not allow reentry to a previously visited site since the stub for each site is torn off of the large ticket when you enter; not all of the other sites offer the combined ticket, so if you plan to go to all of them, you should go to the Acropolis first. If possible, get to the Acropolis early to avoid heavy crowds, and summer heat when relevant. There are two entrances, the lesser-used one starting near the new Acropolis Museum and allowing you to climb up through the Theatre of Dionysus, but this is a little bit more physically taxing as the climb can get steep.
The Ancient Agora— The site of the Ancient Agora in a very green space and a very beautiful view of the Acropolis. You will see the Temple of Hephaestus, the best preserved ancient Greek temple, the Attalos Stoa, the museum of the agora which is a reconstructed ancient building. From the agora you can walk towards Acropolis. Extension of the agora is the Roman Forum.
Syntagma Square— Check out the Parliament building and the newly-restored Grande Bretagne Hotel. Also, catch the changing of the guards in front of the Parliament every hour on the hour. Their uniforms and walking style is fun to see but make sure you don't stand on the wrong side of them if you want to take a picture. If you accidentally do so, they will knock their gun and, as they are not allowed to speak, someone else from the guard will kindly ask you to change position.
The Kerameikos— The site of the ancient cemetery of Athens. It also houses the Dipylon Gate, where the Panathenaic procession would begin. It has a museum showcasing many of the grave stele and other archaeological items found on the grounds.
The Temple of Olympian Zeus— Only the ruins remain today. The column that has fallen and can still be seen on pieces was brought down during a thunderstorm about a century ago. The 1896 Olympic Stadium and Hadrian's Arch are located nearby,
Panathinaiko Stadium— The stadium that housed the first modern day Olympic Games of 1896. Its an enormous, white, marble stadium, with a horseshoe configuration stadium.
Lycabettus Hill— [53] A 200m hill bordering the Kolonaki district. You can reach the top by walking or by a funicular railway [7 euro]. There is a cafe-restaurant with a great view of Athens towards the sea. From halfway up looking towards the sea there are astonishing views of the Parthenon with the blue of the sea glimpsed between its columns.
Museums and Galleries

National Historical Museum (Old Parliament)
Because of its antiquity and influence, Athens is full of museums and galleries. The major ones are the National Archeological Museum near Omonia, the New Acropolis Museum by the Acropolis, the Benaki and Museum of Cycladic Art in Kolonaki, the Agora Museum near Monastiraki, and the Kanellopoulos and Folk Art Museums in Plaka. Details of these and others will be found in the district sections.

Arts and Culture
The visual arts enjoy a big share in the Athenian cultural and everyday life. Next to big institutions such as the National Gallery and the Benaki Museum, a big number of small private galleries are spread within the city centre and the surrounding areas, hosting the works of contemporary visual and media artists. In recent years a number of bar galleries have sprung up, where you can have a drink or a coffee whilst visiting an exhibition.

The National Art Gallery is located at Michalakopoulou Street, close to Evangelismos metro station and is one of Greece's main art institutions and features paintings and works of art from some of Greece's and Europe's best from the 19th and 20th centuries. Emphasis is given to popular Greek contemporary artists including Giannis Tsarouchis, Domenikos Theotokopoulos (a.k.a. El Greco), Theodors Vrizakis, Nikolaos Kounelakis, Nikiforos Litras, Konstantinos Parthenis, Maleas, Giannis Moralis and others
The City of Athens Technopolis, an industrial museum of incomparable architecture - among the most interesting in the world, has been transformed into a multipurpose cultural space. The centre has assisted in the upgrading of a historic Athens district and the creation of yet another positive element in Athens' cultural identity. Technopolis is located at Peiraios Avenue & Persefonis Street, right next to the Kerameikos metro station (line 3).
Parks

In the National Gardens.
Parnitha National Park has well-marked paths, gorges, springs, torrents and caves do the protected area. Hiking and mountain-biking in all four mountains remain popular outdoor activities for many residents of the city. The National Garden of Athens is a peaceful and beautiful park in the centre of Athens, where visitors can enjoy their walk and spend hours of relaxation. The Garden encloses luxuriant vegetation, plenty of flowers, some ancient ruins, two duck ponds and a tiny zoo, consisting of some parrots, ducks, geese, chicken, bunnies and goats. In addition, there is a children’s playground and a café as well. It's located between the Parliament and Zappeion buildings.The landmark Dionysiou Aeropagitou street has been pedestrianised, forming a scenic route. The route starts from the Temple of Olympian Zeus at Vasilissis Olgas Avenue, continues under the southern slopes of the Acropolis near Plaka, and finishes just beyond the Temple of Hephaestus in Thiseio. The route in its entirety provides visitors with views of the Parthenon and the Agora (the meeting point of ancient Athenians), away from the busy city centre.The hills of Athens provide also green space. Lycabettus, Philopappos hill and the area around it including Pnyx and Ardettos hill are all planted with pines and other trees and they are more like small forests than typical urban parks. There is also Pedion tou Areos (Field of Mars) of 27.7 hectares near National Archaeological Museum which is currently under renovation.
Athens is a city that offers the tourist a great variety of activities to take part in, many of them quite unique and memorable. While it would be nearly impossible to make a full list of things to do in Athens, we offer below a look at eight of the most popular options:

Attend the Athens and Epidaurus Festival, which runs from May to October (all summer long) and includes a wide array of events. There will be many musical, drama, and cultural activities, and you should not miss seeing a performance in the ancient theater located in Epidaurus.
consider picking up the Athens card. It includes tours, museums, the one day cruise and more, at a discounted price
Relax on the more than 20 beaches of Attica. Most of them are located to the south of town, such as Vouliagmeni, Varkiza, Cape Sounion, and Legrena; but some also lie to the northeast, including Schinias and Marathon Beach.
Watch a Greek basketball game. There are two teams in Athens, Panathinaikos and Olympiakos, that rank among the elite basketball teams in all of Europe. You can buy tickets to either of their stadiums right in town and get a taste of how basketball is played in modern Greece.
Visit the 'Panatheniac Stadium in Athens. It was built in 1896 to host the first modern Olympic games and is still the place where the torch-passing ceremony is held before every Olympics. It was reconstructed from the remains of an ancient stadium and is made entirely of marble. The stadium is sometimes used to honor victorious Greek athletes, to hold musical and dance concerts, and for other special events, so you may have a chance to visit it — though it's hard to predict what event will be held there at the time.
See the National Garden, a public park that covers 38 acres in central Athens, just behind the Greek Parliament Building. Not only is there abundant and diverse greenery and a relaxing environment, but the garden also contains ancient ruins, busts of famous Greek politicians and poets, a duck pond, a botanical museum, a cafe and a children's area.
Volunteer at the Sea Turtle Rescue Society Archelon in Glyfada, not far from Athens. You will have to work for free and at your own costs, but if you want a chance to see and take care of injured sea turtles, this is an opportunity to do so.
Take a helicopter tour of Athens to get a panoramic view of such sights as the Stadium, the Acropolis, the Parthenon and the Port of Piraeus. The tour can last from a half hour to an hour, and you will see Athens in a unique way "from a bird's eye point of view."
Take off from Athens on a ferry cruise of the Greek islands. You will visit sandy beaches, sheltered coves, and whitewashed island houses on such Aegean isles as Syros, Santorini, and Mykonos.
Entertainment
Theater and Performing Arts

Athens is home to 148 theatrical stages, more than any other city in the world, including the famous ancient Herodes Atticus Theatre, home to the Athens Festival, which runs from May to October each year. In addition to a large number of multiplexes, Athens plays host to a variety of romantic, open air garden cinemas. The city also supports a vast number of music venues, including the Athens Concert Hall, known as the "Mégaron Musikis", which attracts world-famous artists all year round
While exploring ancient ruins and viewing the scenic beauty of Athens may take up a good deal of your vacation time, the city also offers a wide selection of shopping opportunities. In general, you will find a large number of quaint shops selling specialty items like antiques, museum reproductions, embroidery, folk art and Greek-style snacks and drinks to keep you "well fueled" as you continue to shop.

To make it easier to know where to go for what, here's a brief overview of places to shop while in Athens:

Malls and Department Stores While Athens has fewer shopping malls and large department stores than most other big cities, there are still a sufficient number. Some of the most famous establishments include: Athens Heart, a four-level mall containing 80 branded stores; Athens Metro Mall, with 90 stores carrying all major brands, 18 places to eat, five theaters, a supermarket, a bank, and a play area; and Attica, which is considered by many to be the most fashionable place to shop in the city.
Plaka, an area of Athens with an overabundance of souvenir shops, numerous vendors selling wares out in the street, and occasional street performers. It's a popular gathering place at night, and there is a great diversity of goods sold along the streets, which are lined with one specialty shop right after the other.
Kolonaki which is the most renowned of all Athens' shopping areas. It has many "chic" outlets selling top brands, upscale coffee shops, expensive boutiques, and fur coats and gloves on display in its Syntagma Square. There are also some bargains on ceramic, clay or bronze handicrafts and a number of good stops where you can sample Greek "luxury food." You can also schedule an appointment with the fashion designer Christoforos Kotentos if you want to buy designer clothing.
The Ermou Walkway a street open only to pedestrians that is lined with shops on both sides. There are many branded clothes for sale, especially women's clothes, and the price is generally lower than in Kolonaki.
The Monastiraki Flea Market in Monastiraki Square nearby the subway station. It is open every day, but Sunday is the day it gets especially crowded with bargain hunters. It's an open-air market that sells valuable antiques, unique souvenirs, and all manner of goods at all price levels. You can actually haggle over the price here without seeming rude, and the sheer size of the flea market means you can explore it for hours on end.
Street Vendors in any part of town, but especially in Plaka and Monastiraki. Beware of forgeries, but there are also legitimate goods to be found. If the vendor seems to disappear whenever a policeman walks by, take that as a clue. There is no legality issue, however, with those selling fruits, nuts, and produce out of street carts.
There are few things the Greeks are more famous for than their food, and Athens is considered one of the best places to find authentic Greek food. Tourists, as they wander from point to point, will want to stop and refresh themselves with some delicious Greek cuisine, but for many, the food itself is one of the main reasons for coming.

One "must-try" Greek menu item, so common it has been called the "Greek hamburger," is a souvlaki. Souvlakia are grilled kebabs of beef, lamb, pork or chicken that are wrapped in pita bread with tomatoes, onions and lettuce. They are dipped in a yogurt flavored with garlic and cucumber called "tzatziki." Many of the best souvlaki shops in Athens are found along Mitropoleos Street.

Street foods of various kinds are also popular. Look for koulouri, a sesame-seed bread ring, galaktoboureko, a custard-filled pastry with icing on top and tyropitta, which are a kind of cheese pie. At a "psarotaverna," you will find all manner of seafood; at a "psistaria," you will encounter mostly grilled meats; "tavernas" give you an informal and inexpensive (but authentic) Greek meal; "estiatorion are the more expensive restaurants that serve full-course meals; and there are plenty of fast food and foreign cuisine places to eat as well. Finally, note that Greek food in general has an abundance of olive oil, fish, lamb and very distinctive spices.

A full-course Greek meal will begin with mezedes (hor d'oeuvres) both hot and cold, such as mashed eggplant, caviar spread, dolmadakia, meat/rice rolled up in grape leaves, and deep-fried squid or zucchini. Seldom is soup served as an appetizer, but some soups are full meals. Main dishes are usually casseroles, grilled fish, grilled meats or meat stews. Salads of vegetables or boiled dandelions will be served with the main dish, and vegetables will be cooked into the casseroles. Cheeses are served with bread, both regional cheeses and the more common feta, kasseri, graviera and manouri. For desert, look for baklava, a rich pastry with nuts and honey/syrup between the layers, kataifi, a delicate pastry with sweet syrup poured over it, or fresh fruits in the summertime. Also be sure to try Greek coffee and to specify you want bitter, sweet or semi-sweet when ordering.
Greeks love to socialize, and Athens buzzes long after its other European counterparts have laid their heads down to sleep. 20:00 is the earliest most Greeks will consider going to eat out, and clubbers start to get ready at about midnight. Note that many Athens clubs relocate to the beach during the summer months. Cafes spill onto the streets and the sound of lively conversation is everywhere in the evenings.
Have a frappé, the delicious Greek version of cold coffee. Being a Greek invention, it is absolutely nothing like the frappé you find in other countries of the world. Served sweet, medium, or without sugar, with or without milk. Delicious with Bailey's too.
A 'club zone' is located in the coastal zone, running to the east- if you go there and you are lucky, you can actually get to listen to non-Greek music. There are also many clubs and pubs in the center of Athens.
Go to the Psyrrí area (Monastiraki or Thisseio stop, Lines 1 and 3 and Line 1 respectively) for a number of smart bars and small clubs. It is the area immediately north of Ermou street between these two metro stops.
The area north of Ermou street between Monastiraki and Syntagma has seen a considerably rise in the number and quality of bars during recent years. Aiolou and Kolokotroni streets both offer a fair variety of cafés and bars. All the bars on Karytsi square (a small square at the end of Christou Lada street, behind Klafthmonos square on Stadiou avenue) can get very busy on Fridays and Saturdays, with visitors having their drinks even on the streets outside from spring through autumn, when the weather is nice.