Atlanta is the vanguard of the New South, with the charm and elegance of the Old. It is a city that balances southern traditions with sleek modernism. In 2016, Atlanta had 472,522 residents residing within the city limits and nearly 5.3 million in the entire metro area. In Atlanta, the peach trees are plentiful and the tea is sweet, yet this city boasts three skylines and the world’s busiest airport. Atlanta has been burnt to the ground and built back up; it has seen the horrors of war and felt the pain of droughts and floods. Atlanta knows rebirth and endurance though, perhaps better than any other city. Atlanta was host to the 1996 Centennial Olympic Games, is the capital of Georgia, and has become the enduring leader of the American South.
Although most locals rely on their cars for day-to-day transportation, walking, biking, and public transit are well suited for visitors. The major intown neighborhoods are quite walkable, and many attractions are easily accessible from public transit.

If you'll have a car anyway, driving is often the fastest means of getting around. It also opens up destinations that are difficult or impossible to access by public transit. However, having a car in Downtown or Midtown is often a hindrance where parking is scarce, and the lengthy rush hour is an exercise in frustration.
All types of performing arts can be found in Atlanta, such as the Atlanta Ballet. Founded in 1929, it is the oldest professional dance company in America, the largest self-supported arts organization in Georgia and the official Ballet of Georgia. The company's performances combine contemporary and traditional styles with classic ballets and new choreography. Its annual season is presented at the historic Fox Theatre [56], including the holiday season favorite "The Nutcracker." The Fabulous Fox is worth a visit just to see its grandiose interior, and hosts many plays and concerts throughout the year.

Opera fans can enjoy the Atlanta Opera. Atlanta's love affair with opera has spanned over 125 years of the city's history. Founded in 1979, the Atlanta Opera has won numerous awards both nationally and locally.

The Atlanta Symphony Orchestra is recognized for its creativity and innovation internationally. It is also known as a wonderful training ground for musicians who go on to stellar careers with other orchestras. Regular orchestral performances can also be caught at the new Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre. [59].

Atlanta has one of the most impressive theater communities in the United States with more than 65 active performance groups. Metro theaters present a variety of new and old works. The New American Shakespeare Tavern [60] is one highlight; this leading playhouse is the first troupe in America to complete the production of all 38 of Shakespeare's plays. Other highlights include Broadway musicals through Broadway in Atlanta [61] and Theater of the Stars [62], improvisation, southern themes, political and human issues, contemporary, classic and, of course, Shakespeare. Check out Alliance Theatre [63], Dad's Garage [64], Georgia Shakespeare Theatre [65], and Theatre in the Square
Explore the cityscape and enjoy the many pieces of architecture built all around Atlanta, from the skyscrapers of Midtown, to the Downtown skyline, to the houses on Highland Avenue, to the mansions of Buckhead. Inman Park, Atlanta's showcases the city's old Victorian architecture. Other notable architectural attractions include the High Museum of Art and The Jimmy Carter Presidential Library.

Atlanta has a rich assortment of skyscrapers, notable for their modern aesthetic and the abundance of spires. The Bank of america building in midtown rises to a height of 1023 feet making it the tallest office building in the country outside of New York or Chicago. A recent building boom has left Atlanta glittering with dazzling glass skyscrapers, many of which contain some of the most expensive condominiums in the country. That said, the city owes a sizeable portion of its modern cityscape to home-grown architect John Portman. The construction of the icon Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel helped steer Atlanta in a more urban direction. Portman, famous for the development of the hotel atrium also designed numerous other buildings in Atlanta, including the Hyatt Regency, the Marriot Marquis, and AmericasMart.

Atlanta also has a few view points where you can enjoy a 360 degree view of the city in Downtown. One of them is the Sundial atop the Westin Peachtree.[67] Another is the Polaris atop the Hyatt Regency Atlanta (its view is becoming obscured by the growing walls of glass around it), and there is also Nikolai's Roof [68] on top of the Hilton
tlanta Braves and Suntrust Park — The Atlanta Braves' regular season takes place April through September at the newly-built Suntrust Park in Atlanta.
Atlanta Falcons at Mercedes-Benz Stadium (MBS) — The 1998 NFC Champions, the Atlanta Falcons, gear up each September to kick off the official season in Downtown. Replacing the Georgia Dome, the newly built stadium has a retractable roof, and capacity for 80,000 spectators. The Atlanta Falcons and Atlanta United (MLS) are playing the stadium's inaugural season.
Atlanta Hawks and Atlanta Dream at Philips Arena — Covering 4.4 acres, Philips Arena is Atlanta's state-of-the-art multi purpose sports and entertainment complex located in Downtown. The arena is home to the NBA's Hawks and the WNBA's Dream.
Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets — The city's most famous university features a popular and highly competitive sports program that competes in the Atlantic Coast Conference. All of the major venues, the best-known of which are Bobby Dodd Stadium for football, Hank McCamish Pavilion for basketball, and Russ Chandler Stadium for baseball, are on the Tech campus in Midtown.
Atlanta Beat — The second incarnation of the city's women's soccer team joined Women's Professional Soccer in 2010. The Beat play their home games at a brand-new stadium, shared with Kennesaw State University, in the northern suburb of Kennesaw.
Road Atlanta is the local racetrack, and is host to many major racing events including the annual American Le Mans Series "Petit Le Mans", a ten hour endurance race featuring world class cars and drivers.
n January and February, look for the city-wide celebration of visual arts with ATLart and enjoy an early spring at the Southeastern Flower Show [72] held at the Cobb Galleria Centre.
In March, Atlanta celebrates Irish Heritage with Downtown Atlanta's St. Patrick's Day Parade and Festival,  followed, in April, by the Atlanta Dogwood Festival [74] staged at Piedmont Park with children's activities, an artist market, and more.
The Georgia Renaissance Festival  allows people to experience merry olde England during the days of King Arthur.
The Inman Park Festival is one of the city's most popular spring festivals, with live music, art, and a whacky parade. It is held during the last weekend in April.
Each May celebrates jazz in Atlanta, the Atlanta Jazz Festival is presented at the Woodruff Arts Center and other venues.
In June, visitors can experience the Atlanta Film Festival.  The Georgia Shakespeare Festival  presents plays from June through October at the Conant Performing Arts Center at Oglethorpe University.
The days around Independence Day (July 4) are filled with quite a few celebrations, but the most notable is the Peachtree Road Race, with 55,000 runners and many more spectators.
The National Black Arts Festival is held during the third week in July and is the world's largest cultural celebration of African-American art.
Dragon*Con, held for 4 days over Labor Day weekend, is a massive science-fiction and fantasy convention, although it's grown to be so multi-media and multi-genre that almost anyone can find a topic of interest here. Celebrity actors and writers come from across the world for Q&A panels. The convention is spread across 4 or 5 hotels downtown. Admission is pricey, starting at $40 for 2 days up to $120 at the door for an all-weekend pass. Walking through the hotels is free, though (you just can't attend any panels or enter the dealers' rooms), and the Costume Parade is not to be missed, whether you're on the lookout for Klingons, Storm Troopers, or hobbits.
The Atlanta Pride Festival  is an October three-day celebration of gay pride held in Piedmont Park.
Atlanta Celebrates Photography  promotes photography exhibitions and events citywide every October.
Chomp and Stomp Chili and Bluegrass Festival occurs on the first Saturday of November in the historic Cabbagetown neighborhood. $5 gets you a spoon to try an unlimited amount of chili. Bluegrass musicians perform throughout the day on stages throughout the neighborhood.
Atlanta has one of the top 10 retail markets in the US, and the city's neighborhoods are a great place to find antiques, art galleries, arts and crafts stores, thrift stores and boutiques. The city's eclectic shopping neighborhoods include downtown Atlanta, Little Five Points, Virginia-Highland, Buckhead and Midtown.

Looking for antiques and art? The Miami Circle, Street,  and The Galleries of Peachtree Hills  offer some of the best merchandise in Atlanta.

Buckhead is home to more than 1,400 retail stores. Lenox Square  and Phipps Plaza offer the most concentrated collection of upscale stores available anywhere in the city including Barneys CO-OP, Neiman Marcus, Tiffany & Co., Jil Sander, Gucci, Cartier, Burberry, Jimmy Choo and Louis Vuitton. The Midtown Mile [91] is a stretch of Peachtree Street in Midtown that offers street level retail shopping. It's on schedule to be complete in 2009, but many shops are currently open. Atlantic Station [92] also offers plenty of retail options.

If your interest lies in smaller, specialty, boutique or vintage stores, try Little Five Points, Virginia-Highland, and East Atlanta Village. Wax 'N Facts is a popular store in Little Five Points that actually still sells vinyl records. Bill Hallman Boutiques are also a neighborhood staple, providing fashion forward clothing for Atlanta's social set.

Underground Atlanta is six city blocks in the heart of downtown Atlanta transformed into a spirited marketplace that offers historic guided tours and features restaurants, specialty stores, entertainment emporiums, and street-cart merchants.

Street vendors are common in Downtown, especially in the Five Points neighborhood. You can also find large assortment of trade retailers at AmericasMart.

Foreign Exchange. Note that there are only 2 FX locations in all Atlanta. One is at the airport and the other is in Lenox Mall (bottom floor, after food court). Lenox Mall is at Lenox MARTA station, gold(yellow) line (northeast end). The exchange rate given in Lenox Mall was pretty bad, being only 83% of the mid rate [2014-09-10]. I cannot comment on the Airport FX rates.
Affordability, variety of restaurants, culinary diversity and award-winning chefs are key ingredients that earn Atlanta a place at the table with other popular culinary cities. An assortment of neighborhoods offers an array of restaurants featuring cuisine that spans the globe, serving something for every taste.

During the past few years, several celebrity chefs have traveled south to call Atlanta home. Drawn to the quickly growing culinary scene, these chefs have been welcomed with open arms and some true southern hospitality.

Fast Food Chains
Atlanta is home to the headquarters of restaurant chains such as Waffle House, Chick-Fil-A, Zaxby's, Krystal, Mrs. Winner's, Moe's Southwest Grill, Shane's Rib Shack, and Arby's.


Unique bars, restaurants and shops abound in the Little Five Points neighborhood
With fun and unique attractions, renowned restaurants and top-of-the-line hotel experiences, Atlanta keeps the party going from day to night. With chic style in Buckhead, alternative scene in Little Five Points, a casual atmosphere in Virginia-Highland and a trendy vibe in Midtown, Atlanta nightlife suits every style of letting loose. Since each district has so many options, you will want to visit each discrict article for a more detailed listing.

Buckhead is a popular nightlife district for locals and out-of-towners alike. Andrews cafe are among the most popular dance clubs in Buckhead among 20's and 30's singles, while an older crowd can be seen at the Beluga Martini Bar. The Buckhead clientele is mostly of an upscale crowd, so be sure to dress to impress.

For the more alternative/hipster crowd, East Atlanta Village (EAV) is the place to go for live music and inexpensive drinks. However, EAV can be difficult to get to for visitors without access to a car. The Sweet Auburn district, just East of Downtown and easily accessible via the Atlanta Streetcar, has become a very popular nightlife area in recent years. Edgewood Avenue hosts a diverse and eclectic set of bars and clubs. Sister Louisa's Church of the Living Room and Ping-Pong Emporium is a must-see for visitors to the district. The street's bars and clubs are frequented by a diverse clientele from all walks of life.

Midtown is the spot if you're looking for the urban vibe with diverse a crowd of 20's and 30's, many of them are college students, locals, transplants from out of state and foreign countries.[103]

Downtown has a few options for nightlife as well. The Fairlie-Poplar district has a few neighborhood bars, and the Luckie-Marietta district is usually lively with a variety of restaurants and bars clustered around Centennial Olympic Park. Stats [104] is an ideal sports bar to watch a game located near Centennial Olympic Park.

Other popular clubs throughout the city include The Masquerade and MJQ Concourse. All areas of the city also have plenty of pubs and taverns, such as Fado Irish Pub Fado [106] in Buckhead, Shakespeare Tavern [107] in Midtown, and Highland Tap [108] in Virginia-Highland.

All nightlife parts of the city are gay- and lesbian-friendly. However Midtown has the largest concentration of gay/lesbian nightlife establishments.

If you like country line-dancing, you can head out of the city and into the suburbs and check out Wild Bills [109] in Duluth.

