Belgrade — meaning 'White City' — is the capital of the Republic of Serbia. Various styles of architecture dominate the city while its recent resurgence as the leading hub in south-eastern Europe makes it a must-see destination.
As mentioned, Belgrade city core is not too big. Everything between Kalemegdan, Knez Mihajlova street and Skadarska street is best viewed by foot. Other than that, it is recommended to use other means of transportation. Note that many of Belgrade's museums are closed on Monday. It may be wise to check before making a visit.

The massive Kalemegdan and Belgrade Fortress complex
Kalemegdan - Belgrade Fortress. Once an important military fortification, it now serves as the central park of Belgrade. Accessible from the end of the Knez Mihailova street, it offers beautiful views, especially during sunset. The largest part of is a park, along with the fortress walls, with several cafes, tennis and basketball courts, museums and an observatory. Don't forget to take a look at the confluence of the Sava and Danube rivers, and the statue of Pobednik (Winner), one of the symbols of Belgrade.Take tram number 2 from the railway station and disembark at the 4th stop (Kalemdag)to avoid the walking uphill.
Knez Mihailova Street  Main pedestrian street in Belgrade. Crowded during the day and night. Mostly shopping and numerous cafes.

The Republic Square and National theater
Republic Square (Main Square). Main meeting point in the city (also called kod konja - "by the horse"), right next to the statue of Mihailo Obrenovic (riding a horse), National Theater, National Museum and Knez Mihailova Street. Best place to arrange a meeting.

Restaurant patios in Skadarlija
Skadarlija (Skadarska street). Pedestrian street filled with restaurants and cafes, most in the spirit of old Belgrade. Live bands playing old Belgrade music can be heard here in the evenings. The street is paved in cobblestone so high heels are not advised. Blank-walled buildings on the south side have been painted with impressive 'trompe-l'oeil' paintings to add to the atmosphere.
Srpskih vladara (Kralja Milana) street, connecting Belgrade Fortress, Knez Mihailova street and Republic Square with Slavija Square and The Temple of Saint Sava dominate the view as you walk towards it. Notice Terazije Fountain, Hotel Moskva (Former Palace of Russia), The Old Royal Palace, following the New Palace, and theater Jugoslovensko Dramsko Pozorište, as you wander around.

The Old Palace
The Old Royal Palace (Serbian Cyrillic at Nikola Pasic Sqaure, built in 1881, it was residence of Serbian kings, now used as Town Hall.
The White Palace English: White Court or White Palace) is a mansion located in Belgrade, Serbia. The mansion is part of the Royal Compound, a real estate of royal residences and parklands located in Dedinje, an exclusive area of Belgrade
The New Palace -The New Palace is located next to ?he Old Royal Palace, the square Andricev venac(???????? ?????) no. 1st. It was built between 1911 and 1922, as the residence of King Petar I Karadordevic. Today is the official seat of the President of the Republic of Serbia.

Open-air ice skating at square Trg Nikole Pašica, winter months, free of charge
Room Escape:
EscapeMania Two rooms: Voodoo Tales and Robin Hood.
The Great War Island (Veliko ratno ostrvo) is a river island at the confluence of the Sava and Danube rivers, for picnics and bird spotting.
Mount Avala is a 511m mountain near Belgrade with the 204m Avala Tower at the top. Viewing platform is accessible via a lift with great views of Belgrade and parts of Vojvodina and Šumadija. Entrance fee is RSD50 per person. At the top of the Monument to the Unknown Soldier, and the motel and a few restaurants. During the descent, turn right, there is a mountain lodge "Carapica Brest" (???????? ?????), with rooms and good restaurant.
Visit a splav (literally: raft) – a barge restaurant located along the Sava and Danube rivers. There are two kinds of "splav". Some are restaurants, but most are nightclubs. You can literally club-hop all night long. There is no cover charge to get into any of them. Some ultra popular ones may require that you have an invitation or be on the guest list, but if you tell them that you are a foreigner and that you didn't know they'll usually let you in. Women are not required to be on a "guest list". The music played on the barges is highly varied and can include live bands, Serbian folk music, pop, and dance