If you’re looking for the real East-meets-West so talked about in the Middle East, you need look no further than Beirut. Fast-paced, fashion-conscious and overwhelmingly friendly, it's not a relaxing city to spend time in – it's too crowded, polluted and chaotic for that – but its energy, soul, diversity and intoxicating atmosphere make it a vital, addictive city. A couple of excellent museums are the key sights, but exploring the character of the different districts, strolling the waterfront and diving into the city's wonderful restaurant and nightlife scene are major attractions. As Lebanon is so small, and day trips easy, some travellers base themselves here for their entire visit.
Downtown
In Beirut's '60s heyday, a visit to the city's Downtown district, its streets filled with gorgeous Ottoman-era architectural gems, was akin to a leisurely stroll along Paris’ Left Bank. By the 1980s, this part of the city had become the horrific, decimated centre of a protracted civil war; during the 1990s, it proved the focus of prime minister Rafic Hariri’s colossally ambitious rebuilding program, undertaken by the land and real-estate developer, known as Solidere and founded by Hariri in 1994.

Today, the Downtown streets are strangely clean and traffic-free, and the whole area is quite beautiful, though some locals suggest it lacks soul. Locals refer to it as 'Downtown' or 'Solidere'. The area's proximity to parliament and government buildings means it's often on military lockdown, so be careful taking photos. You may have to pass a checkpoint to access the Place d'Étoile area.

Hamra & Ras Beirut
The university districts of Hamra and Ras Beirut, with their plethora of hotels, bookshops, cafes, bars and restaurants, are the preferred base for many travellers, especially as Hamra has a happening cafe-and-bar scene.

Corniche
Stretching roughly from Pigeon Rocks in the south to the St George Yacht Club Downtown, the seafront Corniche is every Beiruti’s favourite promenade spot, especially on warm summer evenings around sunset. Grab a cafe seat or a piece of sea wall and delight in some people-watching par excellence amid pole fishermen, families, courting couples and cavorting children.

If you fancy a dip, several of Beirut’s chic beach clubs are situated along this stretch (note that the word ‘beach’ is used loosely, since there’s barely a grain of sand to be found in any of them and no local would ever swim in the heavily polluted waters, instead lazing by the club pools).

Achrafiyeh
Built on the site of the Roman City of the Dead, Achrafiyeh is an attractive and largely sedate area, historically one of the preserves of Beirut’s Christian population and today dotted with upmarket galleries, boutiques, antiques shops, churches, wine shops and Francophile eateries. You'll hear more French spoken here than in any other part of Beirut.

Gemmayzeh & Mar Mikhaël
Centred on attractive Rue Gouraud, Gemmayzeh is an attractive traditional district well-stocked with restaurants, cafes and bars; it's also home to arty boutiques and galleries. Further east, along Rue Armenia, is the neighbourhood of Mar Mikhaël, a haven for hipsters, foodies and those who aspire to live the bohemian life. This is where you should head to find the best bar scene in the city, and many of its most exciting restaurants.
A few good hostels comprise Beirut's budget accommodation offering, but in general, accommodation prices are very high. High season is from late June to August and over the Christmas/New Year period.

Most of Beirut’s midrange options are located in and around Hamra, and the majority of boutique choices are in Achrafiyeh and Mar Mikhaël. Top-end hotels tend to be found close to the water.

Homestays
If you really want to get under the skin of the country, stay with the people, an option made possible by L’Hote Libanais (www.hotelibanais.com), which arranges B&B homestays in Beirut and beyond. Discounts for multiple-night stays and a range of accommodation are on offer. Contact the helpful staff via the website for the full list of excellent homestay options.
Eating
There are eateries of every description in Beirut, from traditional restaurants specialising in mezze and grills to glamorous brasseries serving exciting nouvelle Lebanese creations.

Every district is blessed with its own complement of juice stalls, fast-food outlets, and shawarma and falafel stands. Gemmayzeh and Mar Mikhaël have the best and most contemporary eating scenes, with Achrafiyeh home to traditional, upmarket choices and Hamra well-stocked with student-friendly cafes and budget eateries.

Beirutis eat dinner late, with few arriving for dinner before 9pm or 10pm.
Beirut nightlife is deservedly legendary; it's a lively and engaging scene. The main bar strip is along the main drag in Mar Mikhaël, with plenty going on in Hamra, too. The scene has moved on from Gemmayzeh, which means that its bars now offer a pleasant alternative for a quieter night out. Another up-and-coming bar scene is in Badaro, along the street of the same name near the National Museum.

Nightclubs
Beirut's clubbing scene is famous. The action starts around 10pm, hits its stride after midnight and continues until 4am or 5am. Thursday, Friday and Saturday are the big nights. Be warned that most venues charge a small fortune for tables and drinks, and that you are unlikely to be let through the door unless you're dressed to the nines. Reserving ahead is often essential if you want a table.
Shopping
Traditional shopping districts are found in Bourj Hammoud (near the Dawra transport hub) and in Hamra, though the latter is increasingly becoming a preserve of international chains. Upmarket shopping can be found Downtown, in Verdun and in malls including ABC in Achrafiyeh and City Mall near Dawra.

Gemmayzeh is a bohemian shopping district full of galleries, while nearby Mar Mikhaël is a designer hub, especially around Rue Pharaon, where there are many boutiques.
Orientation
Navigating Beirut can be tricky. The blue signs on street corners don’t usually give the name of the street itself; instead displaying only the sector (suburb) name and rue (street) number. On top of this, numbered buildings are rare, and many streets don’t have names at all, or are locally known by a different name from the one given on a map. That said, armed with a good street map, getting familiar with this compact city is actually rather easy, and locals love giving directions.