While it's justifiably famed for its fantastic beaches, Barbados is an island that has it all. In addition to fine powdery sand and brilliant turquoise bays, you'll find smashing nightlife, a Unesco World Heritage–listed capital, a beautiful interior dotted with gardens, and wild surf on the lonely east coast, all inhabited by a proud and welcoming populace.

Hiking
Kitesurfing & Windsurfing
Surfing
Hiking
The Barbados National Trust leads guided hikes in the countryside. Hike leaders share insights into local history, geology and wildlife.

A nice hike to do on your own is along the old railroad bed that runs along the east coast from Belleplaine to Martin’s Bay. The whole walk is about 20km, but it can be broken into shorter stretches.

Kitesurfing & Windsurfing
Barbados has good windsurfing and kitesurfing, with the best winds from December to June. Silver Sands, at the southern tip of the island, has excellent conditions for advanced practitioners, while Maxwell, just to the west, is better for intermediates. There are also good breaks for surfers in the area.

Surfing
Barbados has gained international fame for its east-coast breaks. Ground zero is the Soup Bowl, off Bathsheba, and another spot called Duppies, up the coast. South Point, Silver Sands and Rockley Beach on the south coast are sometimes good, as is Brandon’s, which is next to the Hilton Hotel at Needham’s Point. There are some 30 other named breaks.

There are local guys renting out boards on the beach at most of the popular surf spots. Prices are negotiable depending on the quality of the board, but even the nicest board shouldn't be much more than B$20 per hour, or B$60 for daily rental. It's worth noting that the locals are generally nice and welcoming to outsiders.

There are two good surf schools of note: Zed’s Surfing Adventures, based at Silver Sands, and Barry's Surf Barbados at Dover, which transports clients to various spots, depending on conditions.
Sleeping
Intro
You can find some place to stay at every price point on Barbados, although there are quite a few more places at the top end than at the budget end.

Camping is generally not allowed on any public lands.

High Season Prices
In high season (December to April), expect to spend at least US$150 per night for a nice midrange double on, or more likely near, a beach. But shop around online as there are deals to be had.
Eating
Eating in Barbados is a rewarding experience at all budget levels. Whether you're hitting up humble waterside fry shacks or fine-dining restaurants, you'll find plenty of outstanding fresh seafood. But Bajan cuisine is about more than just fried fish and there are many richly spiced local specialties to try out. Most restaurants in areas popular with travelers offer menus featuring both traditional plates and international cuisine.

Essential Food & Drink
Bananas Local varieties are green even when ripe (look for them in markets).

Banks The island’s crisp lager is refreshing after a day in the hot sun.

Barbadian rum Considered some of the finest in the Caribbean, with Mount Gay being the best-known label.

Barbados loves to lime (party) and you'll have no trouble finding somewhere to have a few drinks, even in the smallest towns. The main nightlife on the island is concentrated around St Lawrence Gap on the south coast, but there are also good venues in Holetown on the west coast.

Nocturnal party cruises on large boats are hugely popular among young Bajans. While in some respects a floating disco sounds like a nightmare – not being able to hail a cab once you've had one too many, or being stuck with nowhere to go if you manage to get lucky – taking a party cruise will give you a unique window into local culture.

The cruises are usually independently organized by local promoters who hire the boat and DJs and put on an open bar. The are usually given eye-catching names and are advertised on posters around town and on websites such as www.bajantube.com.

Live music is very popular in Barbados, and while you'll see quite a lot of steel-pan ensembles in the most touristy areas, local venues offer a wide range of genres. Electronic music is gaining traction among young Bajan professionals.

Bajans are into sports in a big way, especially cricket, which draws the biggest crowds. Horse racing is also popular on the island.
Shopping
The handicraft industry in Barbados isn't as developed as on some of the neighboring islands, but there's still plenty of attractive things to fill your suitcase. Farmers markets are a good place to find local arts and crafts and you'll also find stands set up at the back of the Oistins Fish Fry. Most popular beaches also have at least a couple of local vendors.