Surrounded by seven hills and seven fjords, Bergen is a beguiling city. During the early Middle Ages, it was an important seaport and a member of the Hanseatic League, as well as Norway's capital – a heritage that can still be glimpsed in the beautifully preserved wooden houses of Bryggen, now protected as a Unesco World Heritage site. Colourful houses creep up the hillsides, ferries flit around the fjords, and a cluster of excellent art museums provide a welcome detour in case Bergen's notoriously fickle weather sets in. Meanwhile, a large student population ensures the city has a buzzy bar scene and nightlife.
Sights
Making time just to wander Bergen's historic neighbourhoods is a must. Beyond Bryggen, the most picturesque are the steep streets climbing the hill behind the Fløibanen funicular station, Nordnes (the peninsula that runs northwest of the centre, including along the southern shore of the main harbour) and Sandviken (the area north of Håkonshallen). It's a maze of winding lanes and clapboard houses, perfect for a quiet wander.
Sleeping
Intro
Bergen has a reasonably good choice of hotels, but it's very popular and hosts regular conferences and events. It's always sensible to book before arriving in town, especially in summer and for festivals.

The tourist office has an accommodation-booking service both online and on site.
Eating
Intro
Bergen's culinary scene is a diverse one, taking in a small but internationally acknowledged local-food movement, lots of casual places catering to the city's student population and quite a few bastions of west-coast tradition. As might be expected, the fish and seafood are something special.

Coffee is taken seriously in Bergen, with a couple of specialist places catering for caffeine connoisseurs.
Drinking & Nightlife
Intro
Bergen has a great bar scene and locals are enthusiastic drinking companions. Most of them favour the places in the centre or southwest of Øvre Ole Bulls plass. Big, multilevel nightclubs cluster around here, too; they are easy to spot, often fabulously trashy, and only admit those over 24.
Bergen has something for everyone, from high culture to late-night live-music venues. Check out www.bergenlive.com for major acts on tour. Grieghallen is often the venue.

Classical Music Concerts
Bergen has a busy program of concerts throughout summer, many of them focusing on Bergen’s favourite son, composer Edvard Grieg. Most take place at evocative open-air venues such as the Grieg Museum, the Harald Sæverud Museum, atop Mt Fløyen and in the park adjacent to Håkonshallen. For details, schedules and ticket sales, see the tourist office; for some classical concert series, the Bergen Card offers significant discounts. Bergen Cathedral also offers free organ recitals on Sunday and Thursday from mid-June until the end of August.
Bergen has a varied shopping scene, ranging from major chain stores to small boutiques. You'll have to do a bit of digging to find the gems, though.