Regeneration, renewal and grand-scale construction continue at a breathless pace in Britain's second-largest city. A state-of-the-art library, gleaming shopping centre atop revitalised New St Station, beautifully restored Victorian buildings and a tram-line extension through the city's heart are just some of the recently completed initiatives of its Big City Plan. These come hot on the heels of the striking Mailbox and Bullring shopping malls and iconic Selfridges building's 'bubblewrapped' facade. Work has started on the first phase of the centrepiece Paradise development's new hotels, public spaces, and glitzy residential and commercial buildings, due to open in 2018.
Birmingham's grandest civic buildings are clustered around pedestrianised Victoria Sq, at the western end of New St, dominated by the stately facade of Council House, built between 1874 and 1879. The square was given a facelift in 1993, with modernist sphinxes and a fountain topped by a naked female figure, nicknamed 'the floozy in the jacuzzi' by locals, overlooked by a disapproving statue of Queen Victoria.

To the west, Centenary Sq is book-ended by the art-deco Hall of Memory War Memorial, the International Convention Centre (ICC) and Symphony Hall. There's a gleaming golden statue of Birmingham's Industrial Revolution leading lights Matthew Boulton, James Watt and William Murdoch. Centenary Sq's showpiece is the spiffing Library of Birmingham.

Birmingham Canals
During the industrial age, Birmingham was a major hub on the English canal network and today the city has more miles of canals than Venice. Narrow boats still float through the heart of the city, passing a string of glitzy wharf-side developments.

Jewellery Quarter
Birmingham has been a major jewellery player since Charles II acquired a taste for it in 17th-century France. The gentrifying Jewellery Quarter, three-quarters of a mile northwest of the centre, still produces 40% of UK-manufactured jewellery. Dozens of workshops open to the public are listed in the free booklet Jewellery Quarter: the Essential Guide, available from tourist offices and local businesses, or visit www.jewelleryquarter.net.

Take the metro from Snow Hill or the train from Moor St to Jewellery Quarter station.
Sleeping
Chains dominate Birmingham's hotel scene, which is aimed at business travellers, ensuring high weekday prices. Look out for cheap deals at weekends or for longer stays. Accommodation is often tight but 14 new hotels are now in the pipeline and due for completion over the coming years.

B&Bs are concentrated outside the centre in Acocks Green (to the southeast) or Edgbaston and Selly Oak (to the southwest).
Dining options span cool cafes and cosy pubs to gastronomic extravaganzas, with dozens of innovative new openings every year. Inexpensive restaurants scatter throughout Chinatown, on the southwestern side of the Bullring shopping mall.

The Beautiful Balti
Birmingham's famous Balti Triangle (www.balti-birmingham.co.uk), 2.5 miles southeast of the centre, is formed by Ladypool Rd, Stoney Lane and Stratford Rd. Restaurants here serve balti, a Pakistani-inspired one-pot curry, as well as soft drinks, fruit juices and lassis (yoghurt shakes), and diners can bring their own beer or wine.

Many establishments here have closed in recent years as the cuisine has become much more mainstream, with numerous Subcontinental options now in the city centre instead.

The Balti Triangle is liveliest at night, especially on Fridays. Take bus 2, 4, 6, 12, 31 or 37 from Selfridges stop PA3.
Like all British cities, Birmingham has plenty of chain pubs, but fantastic independents continue to spring up all over the city.

Nightlife hubs in Birmingham include Broad St (aka the 'golden mile' – some say for the prevalence of fake tan here) and Chinatown's Arcadian Centre.

Postindustrial Digbeth has alternative clubs and club events in and around the Custard Factory.

Gay & Lesbian Birmingham
Birmingham's loud and lively gay scene is centred on the Gay Village south of the Bullring around Hurst St. The area throngs with the bold, bright and beautiful on weekend nights and peaks during May's Birmingham Pride festivities. For up-to-the-minute information on the Brummie scene, check www.visitgaybrum.com.
Live Music
The Barclaycard Arena, north of Brindley Pl, and the National Exhibition Centre Arena, near Birmingham Airport, host stadium-fillers from the world of rock and pop.

Sport
Birmingham has three football (soccer) clubs within striking distance: Birmingham City Football Club, West Bromwich Albion ('West Brom') and, most famously, Aston Villa Football Club, who play at Villa Park.
Shopping
Bustling markets sell fresh food and cheap imported clothes in the pedestrian precincts surrounding the Bullring.