Constantly reimagining itself as it races towards the future, yet inextricably linked to its glorious, notorious past, Beijing is as compelling as it is complex.
Food is an obsession for the Chinese and the dazzling array of different dishes you’ll encounter in Beijing reflects the sheer joy locals take in eating. Dining out is the main social activity; it’s in restaurants that Beijingers party with friends, romance each other, hold family reunions and do business, and the sheer variety of places to eat here is mind-boggling. Menus will have you salivating over succulent Peking duck, delicious dumplings and chewy noodles, but there’s food from every corner of China (and beyond) to be sampled too. From fiery Sìchuanese to Turkic-inspired Uyghur cuisine, Beijing's 60,000-plus restaurants cover every base.

Imperial Delights
Few places on earth can match the extraordinary historical panorama on display in Beijing. There are six Unesco World Heritage Sites in this city alone (just one less than the whole of Egypt). At its heart is the magnificent Forbidden City, a royal palace on a scale like no other. Beijing is also home to sublime temples that aspire to cosmological perfection, while the city centre is criss-crossed by enchanting hútòng: ancient alleyways that teem with life today, as they did hundreds of years ago. And, to cap it all, the awe-inspiring Great Wall snakes its way across the hills north of town.

Architectural Ambition
It's not just the ancient architecture that wows tourists. Beijing is also home to some of the world's most innovative modern buildings. The world's leading architects clamber for the chance to make their mark on this global powerhouse, and jaw-dropping structures such as the CCTV Building, Galaxy Soho, the NCPA concert hall and the Olympic Stadium are clear signs that Beijing is not shy about proclaiming its status as China’s capital. Like the temples and palaces of the ancient past, and the imposing socialist realist monuments of the 1950s, these latest additions are built on a scale that screams, ‘Look at me!’.

Acrobats & Artists
Beijing isn’t just the political centre of China – it’s the cultural heart of the country too. The nation’s top artists, writers, movie-makers and musicians converge here, making this the place to take the pulse of China’s ever-evolving cultural scene. With top-class museums, galleries galore, and an increasing number of music venues, there’s enough to keep you busy day and night. Beijing is also the centre for the traditional Chinese performing arts. Whether it’s the mystique of Peking opera, tumbling acrobats or the graceful lines of Chinese classical dance that entrances you, the capital has it and more.
Sights
Many of Beijing's key sights are located in and around the centre of the capital, making it easy to move between them by subway and allowing you to see multiple places in a day. But even the sights that are on the far fringes of town are accessible by subway these days. The big exception is The Great Wall, whose various sections are mostly spread out a couple of hours travel away to the north and west of Beijing.
Activities
Intro
Beijing isn't a hive of sporting activity, although you'll find swimming pools, gyms, golf courses and the usual classes – aerobics, martial arts, yoga – here. But the capital makes a fine launching pad for hikes into the countryside, while biking is the best way to experience the hútòng neighbourhoods. Football (soccer) and basketball are the two most popular spectator sports.
Need to Know
Golf
There are any number of golf courses in and around Beijing, although green fees for nonmembers are often more expensive than if you buy a basic set of clubs at one of the capital's many golf outlets.

Ice Skating
Come winter and every expanse of water in Beijing freezes over, allowing both locals and visitors to strap on their ice skates. The most popular place to ice skate are the lakes of Hòuhai, where vendors await to rent you a set of skates and any other gear you might need.

Massage
Beijing is a fine place to get a massage to ease aching muscles, or just to unwind. All sorts of treatments are available, from a simple foot massage to day-long pampering in a posh spa.

Tickets
You can normally buy tickets for both Beijing Guo'an and Beijing Ducks games on the day of the match, at the Workers Stadium and the Wukesong Arena respectively. Scalpers are another option on the rare occasions the games are sold out: they will find you as soon as you are in the vicinity of the stadiums.
Hostels offer the best all-round value, with traveller-friendly facilities and English-speaking staff, but bear in mind that you can find midrange hotels at a similar price point to hostel private rooms. Courtyard hotels are wonderfully atmospheric, but they lack the facilities (pool, gym etc) of top-end hotels in similar price brackets. Thanks to an excess of Olympics-era accommodation, Beijing has rooms in international five-star hotels often going for under ¥1000.

Hostels
Youth hostels offer much more than just dorm beds and budget prices. Many are hidden away in historic buildings down Beijing’s hútòng, with comfortable single and double rooms, and staff tuned into foreign travellers’ needs. Travel advice is often honest, impartial and knowledgeable, and staff members usually speak excellent English. They have free wi-fi, often rent bicycles and tend to run worthwhile day trips and tours to places such as the Great Wall.

Courtyard Hotels
If you want history, look no further than Beijing’s courtyard hotels, which allow you to enjoy the city’s hútòng ambience and inimitable courtyard residences. The downside, considering the relatively high prices, is the smallish size of the rooms, but courtyard hotels come with an atmosphere that is uniquely Beijing and a charm that other hotels cannot imitate.

Luxury Hotels
The top-end bracket is crammed with options in most parts of town (apart from in the Dongchéng North neighbourhood). All the major players in the world of international five-star hotels are represented – Hyatt, Hilton, St Regis etc – and some have multiple locations around the city.

Standard Hotels
Run-of-the-mill midrange Chinese hotels lack character but can be good value as they often come with generous discounts. Expect clean rooms (although some may be smoky) with TV, wi-fi, kettle, fridge and small attached bathrooms. Staff at these types of places rarely speak much English.

Many of the city's cheapest guesthouses, often known as zhaodàisuo (???), still refuse to take foreigners because of the rigmarole involved with registering foreign guests with the local police.

Homestays & Long-term Rentals
Homestays are a great way to experience Chinese culture (and improve your Chinese language skills). Beijing also has a large and fast-expanding couch-surfing community and short-term room rentals can be found at www.airbnb.com.

The rental market in Beijing is good value, considering how much homes cost here now. Prices start at around ¥4000 per month for a two-bed apartment, although that won't be in the centre of town. If you speak Chinese, just make enquiries at any estate agent in the part of town you wish to live in. If you don’t, your easiest option is to check the accommodation pages of the websites of Beijing’s expat magazines.
Beijing is a magnificent place for culinary adventures. With upwards of 60,000 restaurants here, you can enjoy the finest local dishes, as well as eating your way through every region of China. Some of your most memorable Beijing experiences will take place around the dining table. So do as the locals do – grab those chopsticks and dive in.

Maidan!
The Chinese pride themselves on unwavering generosity in public and the arrival of the bill (??; maidan) among a group of diners is an excuse for some elaborate histrionics. People push each other aside and almost fight for the right to pay, but generally it is the host who does and if he didn’t he would lose face.

Splitting the bill is less common here than in the West, so if you invite someone out for dinner, be prepared to foot the bill. And remember that most places will expect you to settle it in hard cash; only top-end restaurants take credit cards.

Need to Know
Opening Hours
Beijing restaurants are mostly open from around 10am to 11pm, although there are quite a few that run 24/7. Many shut after lunch and reopen at 5pm. Generally, the Chinese eat much earlier than Westerners, lunching from 11am and having dinner at about 6pm.

Menus
Be warned that some restaurants in tourist areas still fob off foreigners with an English menu (????; yingwén càidan) that has higher prices than the Chinese menu (????; zhongwén càidan). Generally, though, most places have picture and/or English menus.

Service
With the exception of upmarket restaurants, service can often be erratic and/or lackadaisical. Unless you’re in a restaurant serving foreign food, don’t expect the waiting staff to speak English.

Smoking
There are nonsmoking signs in almost all Beijing restaurants these days, but that doesn’t mean they are adhered to. Smoking is still commonplace in some eateries.

Tipping
Tipping is not standard practice in Beijing. Leave a tip in a local restaurant and the waiter will likely come after you saying you’ve forgotten your change. Some upmarket Western places, though, do tack on a service charge to the bill, as do high-end hotel restaurants.

Peking Duck
You’d have to be quackers to leave Beijing without trying Peking duck (????; Beijing kaoya), the capital's most iconic dish. Its origins go back as far as the 13th century and the Yuan dynasty, when it was listed in royal cookbooks. But it wasn’t until imperial rule in China came to an end in 1911 that most ordinary people got the chance to try it, as the former palace cooks set up roast-duck restaurants around Beijing.

Chefs go through a lengthy process to prepare the duck. First the birds are inflated by blowing air between the skin and body. The skin is then pricked and boiling water poured all over the duck. Sometimes the skin is rubbed with malt sugar to give it an amber colour, before being hung up to air-dry and then roasted in the oven. When roasted, the flesh becomes crispy on the outside and juicy on the inside. The bird is then meticulously cut into slices and served with fermented-bean paste, light pancakes, sliced cucumbers and green onions.
Entertainment
Intro
Live Music
Acrobatics & Beijing Opera
Spectator Sport
Need to Know
Beijing is the cultural capital of China and by far the best place to be if you’re interested in seeing anything from ballet and contemporary dance, to jazz or punk bands. Then there are the traditional local pastimes such as Peking opera (jingjù) and acrobatic shows, as well as movies, theatre and Beijing’s various sports teams.

Live Music
While there might be an instinctive Chinese fondness for K-pop and Taiwanese boy bands, Beijingers have always been at the forefront of the more soulful end of the Chinese music scene. Now, you can find all sorts of bands – indie, alternative, punk, metal, folk and jazz – lifting roofs every night of the week in venues that range from Qing dynasty courtyards, to open-air cinemas. Come summer and Beijing hosts the odd open-air festival too. Sadly, though, the capital remains a backwater for international rock and pop acts, very few of whom make it out here.

Acrobatics & Beijing Opera
Two thousand years old, Chinese acrobatics ( zájì) is one of the best shows in town and there are daily performances at a number of different theatres. Look out too for the legendary, shaven-headed Shàolín monks, who pass through the capital regularly to put on displays of their fearsome fighting skills.

Far more sedate, but equally intriguing, is Peking opera, also known as Beijing opera. It might seem impenetrable to foreigners, its mystique reinforced by the costumes, singing style and, of course, the language, but live performances are actually relatively easy to follow. Plot lines are simple (rather like Shakespearean tragedy, including the low comic relief) and the shows are a more interactive experience than you might imagine.

Spectator Sport
The Chinese are avid football (zúqiú) fans, with many supporting the top teams in England, Italy and Spain. Now, the China Super League is emerging as a force of its own in Asia, with increasing numbers of foreign players arriving to lift standards. The local heroes are the Beijing Guo'an, who play their home games at the Workers Stadium in front of some of China's most vocal fans.

Even more popular than football is basketball. A number of Chinese players have followed in the footsteps of national icon Yao Ming to play in the NBA. The capital's team is the Beijing Ducks, Chinese champions for three of the last five years. They draw a big crowd at the 18,000-seat Wukesong Arena in Haidiàn.