Bogotá is Colombia's beating heart, an engaging and vibrant capital cradled by chilly Andean peaks and steeped in sophisticated urban cool. The city's cultural epicenter is La Candelaria, the cobbled historic downtown to which most travelers gravitate. Here, a potpourri of preciously preserved colonial buildings house museums, restaurants, hotels and bars peppered amid 300-year-old homes, churches and convents. Nearly all of Bogotá's traditional attractions are here – radiating out from Plaza de Bolívar – and gorgeous Cerro de Monserrate is just east.
The city's grittier sides sit south and southwest, where working-class barrios continue to battle well-earned reputations for drugs and crime. In the ritzier north, you'll find boutique hotels and well-heeled locals piling into chic entertainment districts such as the Zona Rosa and Zona G. Here, rust-tinted sunsets dramatically bounce off the bricks of upper-class Bogotá's Andes-hugging residential buildings – a cinematic ceremony that begins the city's uproarious evenings.

Blissfully alive and chock full of key things to see, La Candelaria is Bogotá's colonial barrio, with a mix of carefully restored 300-year-old houses, some rather dilapidated ones, and still more marking more modern eras.

The usual place to start discovering Bogotá is Plaza de Bolívar, marked by a bronze statue of Simón Bolívar (cast in 1846 by Italian artist Pietro Tenerani). It was the first public monument in the city.

The square has changed considerably over the centuries and is no longer lined by colonial buildings; only the Capilla del Sagrario dates from the Spanish era. Other buildings are more recent and flaunt different architectural styles.

Some of La Candelaria's most popular sights, as well as the Centro Cultural Gabriel García Márquez, are within a couple of blocks east of the plaza. The slightly confusing web of museums run by the Banco de la República, including Museo Botero, Casa de Moneda, Colección de Arte and Museo de Arte del Banco de la República, are essentially one massive and labyrinthine interconnected museum complex and form what is easily one of Bogotá's top attractions. Plan ahead: the complex's last entrance is 30 minutes before closing.

Green People Watching From Above
While walking around La Candelaria, try keeping one eye down for fresh dog feces and missing pothole covers, and another one up for a unique art project that peers down from rooftops, window ledges and balconies. Made in the past decade, the artworks – green figures made from recycled materials representing local comuneros (commoners) – come from local artist Jorge Olavé.

Note the guy watching over Plaza de Bolívar from atop the Casa de Comuneros at the southwest corner – best seat in town.

Bogotá's scrappy business center – busiest along Calle 19 and Carrera 7 – is easiest to deal with on Sundays, when Ciclovía shuts down Carrera 7 for cyclists and pedestrians (a permanent pedestrianization is in the works between Plaza de Bolívar and Calle 26); and the Mercado de San Alejo flea market is in force. Some of its most visited parts (notably the Museo del Oro) cluster near La Candelaria by Av Jiménez.

Bogotá's proud symbol – and convenient point of reference – is the white-church-topped 3150m Monserrate peak. It flanks the city's east, about 1.5km from La Candelaria, and is visible from most parts across Sabana de Bogotá (Bogotá savannah; sometimes called 'the valley'). The top has gorgeous views of the 1700-sq-km capital sprawl. On a clear day you can even spot the symmetrical cone of Nevado del Tolima, part of the Parque Nacional Natural (PNN) Los Nevados volcanic range in the Cordillera Central, 135km west.

The church up top is a major mecca for pilgrims, due to its altar statue of the Señor Caído (Fallen Christ), dating from the 1650s, to which many miracles have been attributed. The church was erected after the original chapel was destroyed by an earthquake in 1917. You'll also find two restaurants (Santa Clara and San Isidro) and a cafe – make a day out of it.

The steep 1500-step hike – past snack stands – to the top (60 to 90 minutes' walk) is open from 5am (closed Tuesdays). It is a popular weekend jaunt for bogotanos; on weekdays it used to be dangerous, as thefts occurred all too regularly, but an increase in police presence in recent years has curbed that considerably. If you're traveling solo or don't feel like walking, the regular teleférico (cable car) or funicular, alternates schedules up the mountain from Monserrate Station. Generally the funicular goes before noon (3pm on Saturday), the cable car after.

The funicular is a 20-minute walk up from the Iglesia de las Aguas (along the brick walkways with the fountains – up past the Universidad de los Andes), at the northeast edge of La Candelaria – but again you're best off doing it on weekends, particularly in the morning, when many pilgrims are about.

If you're looking for a place to kick around a football or go for a jog, try Parque Simón Bolívar, or go for a climb up Monserrate on weekend mornings. And don't be afraid to get out on two wheels - Bogotá has some extremely bike-friendly options.

Fusion is the word today for many restaurateurs in Bogotá, who are running Mediterranean, Italian, Californian or pan-Asian influences through typical Colombian dishes, but reinvented homegrown cuisine is on the rise. The best dining destinations include Zona Rosa, Nogal and Zona G; also recommended is Macarena's slightly boho scene, just north of La Candelaria.