Mumbai, formerly Bombay, is big. It’s full of dreamers and hard-labourers, starlets and gangsters, stray dogs and exotic birds, artists and servants, fisherfolk and crorepatis (millionaires), and lots and lots of people. It has India’s most prolific film industry, some of Asia’s biggest slums (as well as the world’s most expensive home) and the largest tropical forest in an urban zone. Mumbai is India’s financial powerhouse, fashion epicentre and a pulse point of religious tension.
If Mumbai is your introduction to India, prepare yourself. The city isn’t a threatening place but its furious energy, limited public transport and punishing pollution make it challenging for visitors. The heart of the city contains some of the grandest colonial-era architecture on the planet but explore a little more and you’ll uncover unique bazaars, hidden temples, hipster enclaves and India’s premier restaurants and nightlife.
Along the city’s southernmost peninsula, Colaba is a bustling district packed with elegant art deco and colonial-era mansions, budget-to-midrange lodgings, bars and restaurants, street stalls and a fisherman’s quarter. Colaba Causeway (Shahid Bhagat Singh Marg) dissects the district.

If you’re here in August, look out for the Koli festival Nariyal Poornima, which is big in Colaba.
Activities
Mumbai has surprisingly good butterfly- and birdwatching opportunities. Sanjay Gandhi National Park is popular for woodland birds, while the mangroves of Godrej (13km east of Bandra) are rich in waders. The Bombay Natural History Society runs excellent trips every weekend. The mudflats viewable from the Sewri Jetty also receive thousands of migratory pink flamingos from November to March.
Drinking & Nightlife
Intro
Forget the capital – Mumbai is a city that really knows how to enjoy itself. Whatever your tipple and whatever your taste, you’ll find it here, from dive bar to sky bar.

Neighbourhoods
Colaba is rich in unpretentious pub-like joints (but also has some very classy places), while Bandra, Juhu and Andheri are home turf for the filmi and model set. Some of the most intriguing new places are opening in midtown areas like Lower Parel, where a craft-beer revolution has taken hold. Wednesday and Thursday are big nights at some clubs, as well as the traditional Friday and Saturday; there’s usually a cover charge. Dress codes apply, so don’t rock up in shorts and sandals. Many places deny entry to men on their own. The trend in Mumbai is towards resto-lounges as opposed to full-on nightclubs. You’re also technically supposed to have a licence to drink in Maharashtra; some bars require you to buy a temporary one, for a nominal fee, though this is exceedingly rare.
Flavours from all over India collide with international trends and taste buds in Mumbai. Colaba has most of the cheap tourist haunts, while Fort and Churchgate are more upscale, a trend that continues in Mahalaxmi and the western suburbs, where you’ll find Mumbai’s most international and expensive restaurants