Boston's history recalls revolution and transformation, and today it is still among the country’s most forward-thinking and barrier-breaking cities
The arts have thrived in Boston ever since the 19th century, when this cultural capital was dubbed the Athens of America. Certainly, the intellectual elite appreciated their fine paintings and classical music, but they were also dedicated to spreading the cultural wealth, establishing museums, libraries and symphony orchestras for all to enjoy. Today the lucky residents of (and visitors to) Boston benefit from their largesse. These venerable institutions play an integral role on Boston's cultural stage, which has significantly expanded to include dynamic contemporary art, music and theater scenes.

'Fanatic' is no idle word here. Boston fans are passionate about sports. And with the four-time world-champion Patriots, the long-overdue World Series–winning Red Sox, the winningest basketball team in history, the Celtics, and the highly successful and historic hockey team, the Bruins, there is a lot to be passionate about. Boston's college teams also inspire fierce loyalties and staunch rivalries. No less spirited is the country's oldest and most celebrated running event, the world-famous Boston Marathon, and the world's largest two-day rowing event, the Head of the Charles Regatta.

A word of advice: when in Boston, eat as much seafood as possible. Local specialties include the 'sacred cod,' fresh steamed lobster, oysters on the half-shell and thick, creamy chowder. You can eat seafood around the city, but especially in the fish-centered Seaport District, where it's accompanied by spectacular harbor views. The creatures of the sea are your top priority, but don't miss the chance to devour delectable pasta in the North End and to sample diverse Asian dishes in Chinatown. Trendy fusion restaurants draw on all of these eclectic influences to present contemporary cuisine that is uniquely Boston.

For all intents and purposes, Boston is the oldest city in America. And you can hardly walk a step over its cobblestone streets without running into some historic site. The Freedom Trail winds its way around the city, connecting 16 historically significant sites. These are the very places where history unfolded: from the first public school in America to Boston’s oldest church building to sites linked to America's fight for independence from Britain – Boston is, in effect, one enormous outdoor history museum.
Considering Boston’s large student population and extensive green spaces, it’s no surprise to see urban outdoorsy people running along the Esplanade and cycling the Emerald Necklace. For seafaring types, the Charles River and the Boston Harbor offer opportunities for kayaking, sailing and even swimming.
If you're not up for commandeering your own boat, there are also tours that will allow you to experience Boston from the water. Tour boats cruise the Inner Harbor and the Charles River, as well as journey out to the Harbor Islands. These tours generally run from April to October, though the season is shorter for the Harbor Islands.
Despite the city’s Puritan roots, modern-day Bostonians like to get their drink on. While the city has more than its fair share of Irish pubs, it also has a dynamic craft-beer movement, with a few homegrown microbreweries; a knowledgeable population of wine drinkers (and pourers); and a red-hot cocktail scene, thanks to some talented local bartenders. So pick your poison…and drink up!
The Boston area is the home of the first Thanksgiving and of bountiful autumnal harvests. It's also America’s seafood capital. And in this era of creative culinary discovery, more and more Bostonians are reclaiming their roots in one crucial way: through their appreciation of local, seasonal and organic products. This thriving 'locavore' movement highlights the bounty of local waters and rich New England farms.