Belgium's fascinating capital, and the administrative capital of the EU, Brussels is historic yet hip, bureaucratic yet bizarre, self confident yet unshowy, and multicultural to its roots. All this plays out in a cityscape that swings from majestic to quirky to rundown and back again. Organic art nouveau facades face off against 1960s concrete developments, and regal 19th-century mansions contrast with the brutal glass of the EU’s Gotham City. This whole maelstrom swirls out from Brussels’ medieval core, where the Grand Place is surely one of the world’s most beautiful squares.
One constant is the enviable quality of everyday life, with a café/bar scene that never gets old. But Brussels doesn’t go out of its way to impress. The citizens’ humorous, deadpan outlook on life is often just as surreal as the canvases of one-time resident Magritte.
Grand Place, Bourse & Around
From the spectacular historic centrepiece of the Grand Place, there’s lots to explore in the cobbled streets of the Îlot Sacré (once an island in the Senne), around the neoclassical Bourse (stock exchange) and in revitalised St-Géry, also formerly an island.

It’s hard to imagine today, but fishing boats once sailed up the now-invisible River Senne, mooring in the heart of Ste-Catherine, which was for centuries a major fish market. Although the river has been covered over since 1870, the area’s reputation for fish persists and the main reason you’re likely to visit is to choose from the numerous well-regarded seafood restaurants around Place Ste-Catherine.

A short stroll up the Mont des Arts steps from the Grand Place area, neoclassical Place Royale forms the heart of Brussels’ regal Upper Town area. The square is flanked by fascinating museums and has a curious secret lurking beneath. North of the Palais Royal is a spacious formal park dotted with classical statues.
The essential Brussels experience involves old-world restaurants where aproned waiters bustle across tiled floors and diners tuck into hearty Belgian cuisine in wood-panelled surroundings. But trendy minimalism has also swept the city, and there’s no shortage of international food. As ever, cafés are generally cheaper and open longer than restaurants if atmosphere and price are more important to you than refinement and cuisine.
In most cities, tourists stop in cafes in between visiting the sights. Here the cafes are the sights: visiting a museum or two just gives your liver the necessary respite before another drink. Nearly every street in the city centre has at least one marvellously atmospheric café. Styles vary from showy art-nouveau places and medieval survivors around the Bourse to hip and heaving options in St-Géry and Ixelles.
For extensive listings, check www.agenda.be, also available in print in English, Flemish and French. Otherwise see the English-language magazine Bulletin. For discounted tickets for arts, music and cinema, 