Budapest is paradise for explorers. Keep your senses primed and you'll discover something wonderful at every turn.
Budapest’s beauty is not all God given; humankind has played a role in shaping this pretty face too. Architecturally, the city is a treasure trove, with enough baroque, neoclassical, Eclectic and art nouveau buildings to satisfy everyone. Overall, though, Budapest has a fin de siècle feel to it, for it was then, during the capital’s ‘golden age' in the late 19th century, that most of what you see today was built.

They say the past is another country, but it’s always been just around the corner in Budapest. Witness the bullet holes and shrapnel pockmarks on buildings from WWII and the 1956 Uprising. There are sad reminders like the poignant Shoes on the Danube memorial, but ones, too, of hope and reconciliation – like the 'sword' of the former secret-police building on Andrássy út now beaten into the 'ploughshare' that is the House of Terror, with both sides of the story told.

There's a lot more to Hungarian food than goulash, and it remains one of the most sophisticated styles of cooking in Europe. Magyars may exaggerate when they say that there are three essential world cuisines: French, Chinese and their own. But Budapest’s reputation as a food capital dates largely from the late 19th and the first half of the 20th century and, despite a fallow period under communism, the city is once again commanding attention. So, too, are Hungary's excellent wines – from Eger's complex reds and Somló’s flinty whites to honey-sweet Tokaj.

The city is blessed with an abundance of hot springs. As a result, ‘taking the waters’ has been a Budapest experience since the time of the Romans. The choice of bathhouses is generous – you can choose among Turkish-era, art nouveau and modern establishments. Some people come seeking a cure for whatever ails them, but the majority are there for fun and relaxation – though we still maintain it’s the world’s best cure for what Hungarians call a macskajaj (cat’s wail) – hangover.
The dining scene in Budapest has undergone a sea change in recent years. Hungarian food has ‘lightened up’, offering the same wonderfully earthy and spicy tastes but in less calorific dishes. The number of vegetarian (or partially meatless) restaurants has gone up, and the choice of eateries with cuisines other than Magyar is greater than ever before.
In recent years Budapest has justifiably gained a reputation as one of Europe’s top nightlife destinations. Alongside its age-old cafe culture, it offers a magical blend of unique drinking holes, fantastic wine, home-grown firewaters and emerging craft beers, all served up with a warm Hungarian welcome and a wonderful sense of fun. www.wheretraveler.com/budapest is useful for nightlife listings.

Drinking establishments in the city run the gamut from quirky pubs and bohemian bars to much more refined wine and cocktail bars.

If you want to sample the local beer (most commonly Dreher, Kobányai and Arany Ászok) head for a sörözo, a ‘pub’ with draught beer (csapolt sör) served in a pohár (0.3L) or korsó (0.4L or 0.5L). Many pubs and bars now also serve a range of craft beers from microbreweries across the country.

Hungary makes some excellent wines too, many unknown outside its borders. The most distinctive reds come from Villány and Szekszárd in southern Transdanubia and the best dry whites are produced around Lake Balaton and in Somló. The red Bikavér (Bull’s Blood) from Eger and the honey-sweet white Tokaj wines are much better known abroad, however.
Budapest is a fantastic city for shopping, whether you’re in the market for traditional folk craft with a twist, cutting-edge designer goods, the latest in flash headgear or honey-sweet dessert wine. Traditional markets stand side by side with mammoth shopping malls, and old-style umbrella-makers can still be found next to avant-garde fashion boutiques.
Antiques and art more than 50 years old require a permit from the Ministry of Culture for export; this involves a visit to a museum expert, photos of the piece and a National Bank form with proof-of-purchase receipts.