A city trapped in time, Havana captures the imagination like no other. Faded glamour meets careful colonial-era reconstruction with a backdrop of irresistible color. Walk El Malecón, the walkway bordering the ocean; visit Old Havana and the Catedral de San Cristóbal; and listen for salsa music, open-air bazaars and parties that last all night. 
The city is located on La Habana (Havana) Bay on the island’s north coast. It is the largest city in the Caribbean region and has one of the great treasuries of historic colonial preserves in the Western Hemisphere. Prior to 1959, when Fidel Castro came to power, it was a mecca for tourists from the United States, who were drawn by the city’s many attractions, which included climate and nightlife in addition to history. During the following years, however, despite its continued importance as the island’s major economic hub, Havana lost much of its lustre, because Castro’s socialist government redirected the country’s resources primarily toward the improvement of conditions in rural Cuba. Havana thus deteriorated, even though rehabilitation projects began in the 1980s.
Havana’s location along a magnificent deep-sea bay with a sheltered harbour made the city a prime location for economic development from Spanish colonial times in the early 16th century. Cuba is endowed with a number of such harbours, but Havana’s on the north coast was prized above the others by the early Spanish colonizers. With land on both sides of the harbour, the port was easily defended. The early colonists erected a number of fortifications in the area that withstood most invaders. In colonial times Havana was the first landfall for Spanish fleets coming to the New World, and it became a staging area, first, for the conquest of the Americas by Spanish conquistadores and, later, for the economic and political domination of the hemisphere by Spain. The city early became a cosmopolitan centre with sprawling fortifications, cobblestone plazas, and buildings with ornamental facades and ornate iron balconies. Today’s Havana mixes these structures with a variety of conventional modern buildings.
Havana’s rich cultural milieu included not only Spaniards from diverse regions of the Iberian Peninsula but other European peoples as well. The small native Indian population of Cuba was not a significant factor in the Havana area and, in any case, was largely decimated in its early contact with the Spanish. The colonial years brought a large influx of black slaves from Africa who, after the end of slavery in the late 19th century, began flocking to Havana. Today’s Havana is a mix of white Spanish stock, black ethnic groups, and significant mulatto strains.
On first impressions, Havana can seem like a confusing jigsaw puzzle, but work out how to put the pieces together and a beautiful picture emerges.
No one could have invented Havana. It’s too audacious, too contradictory, and – despite 50 years of withering neglect – too damned beautiful. How it does it is anyone’s guess. Maybe it’s the swashbuckling history still almost perceptible in atmospheric colonial streets; the survivalist spirit of a populace scarred by two independence wars, a revolution and a US trade embargo; or the indefatigable salsa energy that ricochets off walls and emanates most emphatically from the people. Don’t come here with a long list of questions. Just arrive with an open mind and prepare for a long, slow seduction.
It may not be like Paris' or New York's quite yet, but the art culture in Havana is currently one of the city's biggest surprises. The creativity is nothing new. Cuban artists have been quietly challenging cultural elites ever since native-born José Nicolás de la Escalera started painting black slaves in the 18th century. Today the work of Escalera and others is splendidly displayed in the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes. Meanwhile, a newer, racier crew congregates for electrifying 'happenings' at the Fábrica de Arte Cubano, the vortex of Havana's contemporary art scene.
Havana is going through an interesting stage at present. Private enterprise is showing the first flowerings of a creative spring, while the big-name brands from that well-known 'frenemy' in the north have yet to gain a foothold. As a result, the city is rife with experimentation. Here a dandy cafe decked out like a bohemian artist's lair, there a trancey lounge bar where earnest travelers sit around comparing Che Guevara T-shirts. Maybe it's something they put in the mojitos, but the face of Cuban cafe culture has never looked so good
In Havana the history is piled up like wrecked treasure on a palm-fringed beach. Except these days the colonial squares and buildings are looking noticeably less wrecked, thanks primarily to proactive City Historian Eusebio Leal Spengler, who has been piecing the place back together for over 30 years. Walk the streets of Habana Vieja and you'll quickly feel a genuine connection with the past in the imposing coastal fortifications and intimate, traffic-free plazas. Equally engrossing are the more recent leftovers from Cuba's marriages and divorces with both the USA and the USSR.
