Thailand’s largest island is an international magnet for beach lovers and serious divers, who enthusiastically submerge themselves in the Andaman Sea. Blue lagoons and salmon sunsets make for a dream-like atmosphere, and indeed, a vacation here can feel a bit surreal. Watersports are the most popular activities, though once you’ve had enough sun there’s still plenty to explore at the island’s aquariums, gardens, and Buddhist temples. 
First, let's get And then remember that this is the largest Thai island, so you rarely feel surrounded by water. But that means there is space for everyone. Phuket offers such a rich variety of experiences – beach-bumming, culture, diving, fabulous food, hedonistic or holistic pleasures – that visitors are spoilt for choice.
Of course, the white-sand beaches that ring the southern and western coasts are the principal draw, along with some of the finest hotels and spas in Thailand. Each beach is different, from the upmarket resorts of Surin and Ao Bang Thao, to family-oriented Rawai, or the sin city of Patong, home of hangovers and go-go girls. But there's also the culturally rich east-coast capital Phuket Town, as well as wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in the north. With so many options, you may just forget to leave.
Phuket Province is located in Southern Thailand. It is the biggest island of Thailand and sits on the Andaman Sea. The nearest province to the north is Phang-nga and the nearest provinces to the east are Phang-nga and Krabi.
Phuket has a large Chinese influence, so you will see many Chinese shrines and Chinese restaurants around the city. A Chinese Vegetarian Festival is held there every year. While the Chinese community is quite big, there are many other ethnicities bringing all their traditions and festivals from all over the world to Phuket.
Being a big island, Phuket is surrounded by many magnificent beaches such as Rawai, Patong, Karon, Kamala, Kata Yai, Kata Noi, and Mai Khao. Laem Phromthep Viewpoint is said to feature the most beautiful sunsets in Thailand.
It isn’t all just beaches though, there is also fantastic classical architecture such as the Goom Restaurant. That and the very welcome atmosphere and the famous Phuket nightlife, you can see why the island is a hotspot for tourists in Thailand.
Visiting Phuket is easy as there are many travel options.