Houston hums with an energy and independent spirit all its own. A leading cultural and culinary destination in the South, the city is home to over 11,000 restaurants featuring cuisine from more than 70 countries. The thriving arts scene includes resident opera, ballet, symphony and theater companies. The Museum District houses 19 museums, all within walking distance. Be sure to visit Space Center Houston, where you can visit NASA’s Historic Mission Control at the Johnson Space Center. 
Think laid-back, pick-up truck and boot-scooting town meets high-powered, high-cultured and high-heeled metropolis. During the day, chill out in your flip-flops, take in museums and go shopping, then hit happy hour on a leaf-shaded deck. At night, revel in culinary or cultural bliss – the restaurant and entertainment scenes are renowned across the region. Here, starched jeans are de rigueur in all but the very fanciest of restaurants.
America's fourth-largest city is a cosmopolitan destination, filled with world-class dining, arts, hotels, shopping and nightlife. Take a stroll through the historic Heights, spend the day exploring the Museum District or head down to Space Center Houston. Later on, grab a bite in one of dozens of award-winning restaurants, or hang out with the cool kids on Washington Avenue. There's always something to do in this Southern hospitality meets urban chic city. 
Whether you're traveling here for business, looking for an exciting day trip or weekend getaway or embarking on a family friendly adventure, you'll find there's something for everyone in Houston. Go ahead and browse through the site and we guarantee you'll discover some must-see stops that you won't want to miss. 
Houston serves up nationally recognized dining, shopping, entertainment and nightlife.  We have world-class attractions and events.  Best of all, you'll find a number of things that are budget-friendly or free. In fact, there's so many things to do in Houston, you may want to schedule an extra day or two to your trip!
