Ibiza - the old Spanish for "party 'til you drop." Perhaps not literally, but this is definitely one of Europe's favorite nightlife playgrounds. Ibiza boasts more than 100 miles of coastline with some 50 beaches, plus plenty of restaurants, bars, and water sports—and clubs, of course. Fit in a little culture and visit Ibiza's UNESCO-designated old town. 
All-night raver, boho-cool hippy, blissed-out beach lover – Ibiza is all this and more to the many, many fans who have a soft spot for the Balearics' party-hard sister. In summer the cream of the world's DJs (David Guetta, Sven Väth, Armin van Buuren et al) descend on the island, making it the ultimate destination for clubbers. Ibiza's modest population is swallowed whole by the seven-million-odd tourists that arrive en masse each year, and nowhere does sunset chilling or boho-glam style quite like the White Isle.
But there's more to this sun-kissed, beach-bejewelled, pine-clad island than meets the bleary eye. Step off the beaten track for a spell in a rural hotel, a hidden hamlet, a hushed church or on a secluded north-coast cove to discover Ibiza's surprisingly peaceful side. Or roam the ramparts of Ibiza Town's World Heritage–listed Dalt Vila to immerse yourself in the island's rich history and heritage.
A nucleus for the convergence and interchange of numerous cultures – Punic, Phoenician, Roman, Byzantine, Visigoth, Muslim and Catalan – Ibiza today is known throughout the world for the beauty of the ‘ship of stone’, as poets have been known to call Dalt Vila, the best-preserved walled fortification in the Mediterranean region and a location that has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Ibiza is also renowned for its privileged natural surroundings and for the millennial swards of Posidonia Oceanica, which were included in the World Heritage declaration as they help maintain the marine ecosystem and ensure both the preservation of the sand on the local beaches and the crystalline transparency of the waters around the Pityusic Islands.
Eivissa is a celebrated tourism destination, and not only for its cultural heritage, but also for the availability of arts, sports, gastronomy, shopping and leisure opportunities for all ages and for a possessing a lively, cosmopolitan ambience that attracts visitors from the world over.
Welcome to Eivissa (Ibiza), a voyage that never ends due to the fact that the town is constantly reinventing itself and never fails to surprise. Eivissa is your home, your dream world, your paradise … a place to which you will always want to return.
Explore some of the traditional countryside of this beautiful island that few people take the time to enjoy.
Take a boat or go parasailing.
Explore the wharf side festival. Hundreds of locals flock to the carnival-style stands for fresh foods, enticing smells, and quality made trinkets.
Explore some of the traditional countryside of this beautiful island that few people take the time to enjoy.
A merchant sells luxurious hand-made soaps that cast a wonderful aroma into the air.
fragrant batch of healthful herbs, for making teas or incense.
The numerous stalls are alive with colors and patterns. Above are recognizable wooden figures, hand crafted from the skilled merchants.
In addition to incredible tastes and smells, there is a strong visual aspect to the festivals. A snake charmer is seen leading a small parade through the different stands at the glee and fright of small children everywhere.
If you're interested in craft beer, visit Ibiza's first microbrewery Ibosim Brewhouse located in Port des Torrent
During the local beach front festivals, merchants offer a wide array of goods. Pictured above is a fragrant batch of healthful herbs, for making teas or incense.