Tyrol’s capital is a sight to behold. The jagged rock spires of the Nordkette range are so close that within minutes it’s possible to travel from the city's heart to over 2000m above sea level and alpine pastures where cowbells chime. Summer and winter activities abound, and it’s understandable why some visitors only take a peek at Innsbruck proper before heading for the hills. But to do so is a shame, for Innsbruck is in many ways Austria in microcosm: its late-medieval Altstadt is picture-book stuff, presided over by a grand Habsburg palace and baroque cathedral, while its Olympic ski jump with big mountain views make a spectacular leap between the urban and the outdoors.
Coveted by empires and republics throughout its history, Innsbruck was the seat of the imperial court of Maximilian I by the end of the 15th century. Trams make getting around the city quick, efficient and cheap. Explore the Tyrolean capital's history at Archduke Ferdinand II's 10th-century Schloss Ambras, the Tyrolean Folk Art Museum, the grand 15th-century Imperial Palace and Maximilian I's famous Golden Roof. One of Europe's most idyllic cities, Innsbruck is nestled in the heart of the Alps.
Discover the sights and attractions of this holiday destination and enjoy a unique mix of alpine urban experiences – in a place where the mountains meet the valley and the city is one with nature. Explore the holiday villages in the surrounding area, from sunny alpine plateaus and wildly romantic mountaineering villages to family-friendly oases of wellbeing. Perfect for winter holidays, ideal for summer holidays. A great range of leisure activities, cultural highlights and sports are on offer year round in Innsbruck and the surrounding area.
Green alpine meadows and white ski slopes, relaxed summer enjoyment and atmospheric winter attractions: every season is special in Innsbruck and the surrounding area. From Christmas markets to powder snow and from swimming to hiking – you’ll love the variety whenever you visit.
Historic sights line up together in Innsbruck's old town. The Middle Ages meet the 21st century and charming little alleys meet the broad promenade of Maria-Theresien-Straße. The Golden Roof, the Hofkirche, traditional inns and the Imperial Palace bring history to life. The Nordkette, Patscherkofel, Serles and other impressive mountains ensure a commanding backdrop. Small, stylish shops and modern architecture ensure a contemporary focus, while charming boutiques, lovingly-run handicraft shops, retail centres and speciality stores provide an enjoyable shopping experience.
