There are many things that are unique to Johannesburg. It features a distinct street entrepreneurship, and motorists can buy things from vendors selling goods at traffic lights, as in many other developing-world cities. This includes food, umbrellas, soccer balls, cellular phone accessories and many other goods. Barber shops consisting of nothing but a chair and an enthusiastic barber can be found on the sides of roads, although they tend to specialize in African rather than Caucasian hair. Mine dumps can also be seen throughout the city and are a reminder of the city's legacy of gold mining. These dumps are fast disappearing as new gold extraction techniques have made it profitable for mining companies to reprocess these dumps.
With around 6 million trees, Johannesburg is most likely the world's largest man-made urban forest. The city is certainly one of the greenest in the world, considering that the natural landscape is savannah.
Set with the task of marketing the City of Johannesburg to the world, Joburg Tourism looks to promote the City of Gold as a business, lifestyle, sport and leisure destination to travellers from all over the world. Joburg Tourism’s portfolio includes highlighting interesting attractions, world-class facilities and the city’s infrastructure. Several inner-city development projects, the opening of new tourists attractions and garnering quite a few prestigious accolades in the last few years have created a positive shift in travellers’ perception of Johannesburg. The establishment of fine-dining restaurants, five-star hotels and an effective public transport system has aided in the awareness of Johannesburg as a destination to visit.
As the second largest city in Africa, Joburg is home to more than three-million people, which is quite an achievement for a city that is less than 200 years old. Starting out as rudimentary settlement dedicated to the miners who flocked in their thousands to the gold reserves on the Witwatersrand in 1886, Johannesburg is still viewed as a city for residents who want to bring their dreams to fruition. It is also home to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, numerous consulates, international corporations and an incredibly diverse population made up of dozens of nationalities from Africa and beyond.
The city’s gold-mining history, its pivotal role in apartheid and its emerging cosmopolitan hubs have created many appealing attractions for visitors. From views over the city’s northern suburbs and an urban jungle containing over 100 000 trees to the fast-paced streets of the inner city, there is no time to waste when exploring Johannesburg. Some of the attractions include:
Travellers to Johannesburg can look forward to assistance from Joburg Tourism to plan their stay in a number of ways. Its operations include running a convention bureau and a visitor services bureau, as well as co-ordinating citywide tourism-marketing programmes, tourism information gathering and analysis. Visitor information centres are located at Joburg Tourism’s head office in Parktown North, within the bustling township of Soweto and at one of the city’s major transport terminals, Park Station. A comprehensive website, with detailed activities and attractions as well as additional travel resources, is accessible at www.joburgtourism.com.
Recently, Johannesburg was named the second-most inspiring city after Hong Kong in the annual Good City Index. It was also cited to be the most popular city in Africa for the second year in a row in the 2014 MasterCard Global Destination Cities Index.
The weather is generally regarded as excellent; temperatures reach the mid-30s Celsius (95°F) in the summer months (Dec-Feb) with little to no wind and with occasional, spectacular afternoon thunderstorms. Temperatures in winter can drop into single digits but snow is extremely rare.
Commonly known as Jo’burg or Jozi, this rapidly changing city is the vibrant heart of South Africa. After almost 20 years of decline and decay, Johannesburg is now looking optimistically towards the future. Its centre is smartening up and new loft apartments and office developments are being constructed at a rapid pace. The hipster-friendly neighbourhood of Maboneng is considered one of the most successful urban-renewal projects in the world. However, the wealth divide remains stark, and crime and poverty haven't been eliminated. The affluence of Rosebank and Sandton breeds discontent in desperately poor neighbouring townships such as Alexandra.
Still, Jo’burg is an incredibly friendly, unstuffy city and there’s a lot to see and do here. The city is awash with superb museums, mostly offering deep insight into South Africa's troubled past such as the Apartheid Museum. Delve in and experience the buzz of a city undergoing an incredible rebirth.