Klagenfurt has about 90.000 inhabitants and is located close to Wörthersee. It is the native town of well-known writer Robert Musil (especially known for his book The Man Without Qualities) and is host for the The Ingeborg Bachmann Competition, a famous German literature competition. Gustav Mahler, musician and composer also worked and lived in Klagenfurt. Every year the Beach Volleyball Grand Slam Tournament takes place at Wörthersee lake at the beginning of August.
Klagenfurt's theater (Stadttheater) is well known (even beyond the borders of Carinthia) for the high quality of its theater and opera performances.
If you are interested in the historic city centre, you might want to take an organized tour : a historic city walk. Those tours are available daily (at 10 am) during summer time. Just head for Neuer Platz (in front of the city hall) or call 537 2293 for more details. The tour is free.
Beachvolleyball Grand Slam Every year the world's top beach volleyball players meet in Klagenfurt. Tickets sell out quickly and should be purchased well in advance. There is also a certain number of free seats, but queueing is necessary.
Ironman Austria takes place every year with a large number of participants.
Swimming: Klagenfurt's beautiful beach (Strandbad Klagenfurt), is located on the Woethersee and has space for around 12000 guests. In additon to a sandy beach, a large grassy area and piers for sunbathing, there is also a small football (soccer) pitch, a beach volleyball court, a water slide (free of charge) and two restaurants. Entrance fee is approx €2-3.
Klagenfurt may not be up there with Vienna or Graz in terms of urban lifestyle, but it's an enjoyable, vibrant and sunny city with a compact Inner Stadt and offers easy access to lakeside villages on and around the beautiful Wörthersee. At the city’s western limit is the wide green space of Europapark along with Austria's largest bathing complex. It's a surprisingly lively place, both as a playground for partiers down at the lido in summer and as a university town the rest of the year.