Imagine a city, with a skyline punctuated by minarets, Mogul-style domes and skyscrapers; imagine colourful, food-stall-lined streets shaded by a leafy canopy of banyan trees.
This is Kuala Lumpur (KL), Malaysia’s sultry capital packed with historic monuments, steel-clad skyscrapers, lush parks, megasized shopping malls, bustling street markets and lively nightspots.Essential parts of the vibrant mix are the incense-wreathed, colourfully adorned mosques and temples of the country’s Malay, Chinese and Indian communities. A reverence for these ancient cultures is balanced with a drive to be plugged into the contemporary world, a desire that's reflected in an exciting contemporary-art and design scene, an ambitious riverbank-regeneration project and cutting-edge architecture: once completed, the new Merdeka PNB 118 tower will be taller than the iconic Petronas Towers.
Historical Canvas
Today's KL-ites are separated by barely a handful of generations from the tenacious Chinese and Malay tin prospectors who founded the city, carving it out of virgin jungle. By the time the British made it the capital of Peninsular Malaysia in the late 19th century, erecting grand colonial buildings, KL had only been in existence for a couple of decades.Since then, the city has been the scene of history-defining moments for Malaysia. Stadium Merdeka was where, in 1957, the country’s first prime minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman, punched his fist seven times in the air and declared independence.
Shopping
To fully connect with locals, join them in two of their favourite pastimes: shopping and eating. Malaysian consumer culture achieves its zenith in KL, where you could spend all day browsing glitzy air-conditioned malls such as Pavilion Kuala Lumpur, Suria KLCC and Mid Valley Megamall in search of designer fashion and bargains. Bangsar and Publika are the places to go for lesser-known labels and the work of offbeat independent designers. Alternatively, explore Central Market for locally made souvenirs and handicrafts; and hunt out the few remaining artisans and antiques dealers still keeping shop in and around Chinatown.
Kuala Lumpur is home to me and to 1.8 million other KLites. It is a place where a variety of cultures are all infused into one melting pot to offer a unique experience to visitors. Where else can you savour the meanest street food with one of the world's most iconic structures in the background?   KL is definitely a place where everyday fun and world-class sophistication meet to create a unique destination for travellers, filled with Malaysian charm and friendliness – with greetings of "Selamat Datang" (Welcome) everywhere you go.
Kuala Lumpur, the main gateway to Malaysia has a variety of attractions ranging from culture, heritage & places of interest, shopping, entertainment, nature & adventure, luxury travel, sports, business & events, medical & wellness, and education all showcases the city’s contrasts and diversity. This is what makes KL distinctive and the city’s identity was built on its history, people and tradition in the arts and culture.
This, I believe is why KL has been ranked as a Top 10 City Destination in the World by Euromonitor International for more than 5 years now. The contrasting history and heritage, from the early days of the small tin mining trading town to the metropolis city it is today yet retaining her fundamental identity, will excite, surprise and entice you to discover more. 
KL is well recognised as a shopper's paradise. I invite you to take a stroll within KL's deluxe shopping centres, now linked by comfortable walkways, and vibrant night bazaars and be spoilt for choices. In our city, there's always a time and place to shop. In 2013, KL was voted as the world's fourth best place to shop by CNN Travel. This is a feat I am truly proud of as I see this as a sign of KL opening up to smart and discerning travelers.
I assure you that you will enjoy your time savouring the amazingly diverse culinary options and exploring what the city has to offer. KL's unique diversity - the Malays, Chinese, Indians and other ethnicities - have all injected their own unique influences to the city's art, language, architecture and night scenes. The city is full of flavours, colours and experiences waiting for you to explore.
As I end this, I wish you a wonderful time in KL, and hope that you'll be greeted with a warm "Selamat Datang" as you enter our city of contrasts and diversity.
Street Feast
It won't take you long to realise that, despite the heat, this is a city best explored on foot. Walk and you can catch all the action and save yourself the frustration of becoming entangled in one of KL's all-too-frequent traffic jams. What's more, you'll be sure to come across some of the city's best dining spots: the hawker stalls and traditional neighborhood kopitiam (coffee shops) that beckon you over with the aroma of freshly cooked food. Despite the city's relentless march towards modernity, parts of KL retain the laid-back ambience and jungle lushness of the kampung (village) it once was.