An oasis of indulgence dazzling in the desert, Vegas' seduction is unrivaled. The Strip shimmers hypnotically, promising excitement, entertainment, fortune and fame. Seeing is believing.
There are few places outside London, Tokyo and New York where you're this spoiled for choice when it comes to A-list entertainers and big-budget stage shows. Seasonal casino residencies by the megastars of the music world range from the likes of Celine Dion (still going strong), Elton John, the Backstreet Boys and Ricky Martin to the superstar DJs of the EDM (electronic dance music) universe, Calvin Harris, Carl Cox, Steve Aoki and Tiësto. Top that with seven enthralling Cirque du Soleil shows, the mesmerizing Blue Man Group and magicians Penn & Teller, and you've got a pretty full schedule.

Dining
The volume and concentration of the Strip's celebrity chefs, hatted fine-dining restaurants and America's favorite food franchises is hard to fathom: it's impossible to sample them all, in terms of time taken to savor the spectrum of flavors and the depth of the average visitor's wallet. If you're a foodie on a pilgrimage, we suggest you do your research and narrow your selection before you arrive, lest you be overwhelmed by the scope of what's on offer, or unable to secure a reservation in the short duration of your stay. Make sure to save room for dessert!

Nature Almighty
In this 24/7 city where it's possible to spend your entire visit within labyrinthine indoor worlds where artificial lighting mimics day's passing into night, many visitors won't wander far from their expensive accommodations, lavish pool bar, mesmerizing casino floor, or even come off the dance floor for air. The wise and well-informed, however, (that's you!) will venture off the Strip to experience the spectacular scenic beauty surrounding Las Vegas ('The Meadows'). Forged by tectonics, carved by the wind and sun baked, vast canyons and playa, epic mountains and alpine forests beckon you trade humanity's distractions for nature's warm embrace.

Luxury Hotels
Those who enjoy life's finer details flock to Vegas to lap up the luxuries of the world's biggest and boldest high-end hotels. With price tags hovering around $300 per night for a sumptuous standard room at Encore, Cosmopolitan or Delano and starting at $1000 per night for a decadent SkyLoft at MGM Grand, $3500 for a Sky Villa at Aria then skyrocketing to a reputed $35,000 for the privilege of occupying Nobu Hotel's exclusive Nobu Villa, Vegas' 120,000-plus hotel rooms offer something for every possible taste, ranging in quality and style from the sublime to the ridiculous.

Las Vegas is the most exciting and entertaining city in the world. Nowhere else can you find a city that has all the travel amenities that only a complete resort destination can offer: luxurious casino hotels, fine dining, wonderful live entertainment and state-of-the art convention and trade show facilities. Las Vegas is a spectacular city, incomparable to any other. Everything that you would expect from a world-class metropolis, and more, is right here for your travel pleasure. 

Las Vegas is a city that has something for everyone. While you are here, make sure to see all the great attractions the city of Las Vegas has to offer. Recognized all over the world, our famous Las Vegas Strip is where tourists can enjoy a walk in the warm desert evening, or take a stroll downtown and view a dazzling light show that spans an entire street, the Fremont Street Experience. Visitors can also get a glimpse of amazing world famous re-creations like erupting volcanoes, the Eiffel Tower and the Sphinx of Egypt in front of the various hotels and casinos.

 

Las Vegas tourism offers top quality entertainment, including headliner shows and concerts, attractions, shopping and world-renowned resorts. Las Vegas nightlife will keep you up until dawn and art displays, music and museums take you on a journey from the classic to the contemporary. Downtown Las Vegas offers an energetic display of color with a bit of nostalgia and a glimpse of the future.

 

If you are looking to enjoy the Wild West and our great outdoor recreation, beyond the glamour and glitter of our neon lights, we have plenty to see. There are enchanting panoramas in the Red Rock National Conservation area, Lake Mead National Recreation area and at Mount Charleston. All are only minutes from Las Vegas Strip hotels and casinos. We have Las Vegas helicopter tours, Grand Canyon tours, Hoover Dam, and Las Vegas Strip tours departing every few minutes. 

Las Vegas continuously reinvents itself, so even if you have been to our great city before you will never run out of fun things to do. You can use the links above to acquire more travel and specific Las Vegas tourist information for unique opportunities and attractions offered to visitors every year.