Luxembourg City is a lively and bustling capital with a lot of great touristic attractions to visit and a multitude of things to do. As a cultural platform, it abounds in venues for artistic expression, such as museums, theatres and concert halls. The cultural offer that makes up Luxembourg is representative of its city dwellers: multilingual, multicultural, creative and eclectic. Indeed, the centre region of the country is home to nearly 170 different nationalities that have chosen to live in or next to a capital at the heart of action.
Nowhere else in Europe you will find such an outstanding mixture of historic sites and contemporary architecture. The old city of Luxembourg and its fortress has for long been part of the UNESCO World Heritage. With high-tech buildings running alongside historic monuments, the capital represents a rich tapestry of contrasts and urban experiences. In short: Luxembourg is a modern city with deep roots.
Nearly one third of the surface of the city is shaped by beautifully landscaped green spaces. Numerous parks and gardens, passing through the capital, constitute a pleasant green belt and provide a high quality of city life. Luxembourg’s unique sights, culture and history, can by discovered in several manners, during a walk, a tour by bike or tourist bus, etc.
The city of Luxembourg is one of the institutional seats of the European Union, hosting for instance the Secretariat of the European Parliament and the European Court of Justice. Renowned for its efficient bank sector, Luxembourg is furthermore an ideal platform for dynamic business activity that is diversified and not limited to financial services. While organisations such as “Luxembourg for Business” and “Luxembourg for Finance” provide relevant information about economy, the city and the country are developing themselves as a very attractive MICE destination.
If you thought that the Grand Duchy's capital was nothing more than banks and EU offices, you'll be delighted at discovering the attractive reality. The Unesco-listed Old Town is one of Europe's most scenic capitals, thanks largely to its unusual setting, draped across the deep gorges of the Alzette and Pétrusse rivers. It's full of weird spaces, tunnels, and surprising nooks to explore. Good museums and a great dining scene makes this a top city to visit. It's worth visiting on a weekend, when hotel prices drop and on-street parking is free.
A captivating contrast of old and new, Luxembourg City's past is celebrated by its World Heritage status, while its present sway is clear from its role as headquarters for several major European institutions. Small enough to explore on foot, this compact city offers a wealth of attractions, including dramatic promontory The Bock, underground passages in Petrusse Casemates, Palace of the Grand Dukes and the National Museum. Countless banks on Boulevard Royal, once a fortress moat, hint at the duchy's wealth.