The John Rylands Library is one of Manchester’s most impressive buildings. Nestled between the busy Spinningfields district and Deansgate, this masterpiece of Victorian Gothic architecture looks more like a castle or cathedral than a library. Discover incredible exhibitions, take a seat in the impressive reading room or just appreciate the sheer beauty of the place.
Known throughout the world as the birthplace of the industrial revolution, Manchester has a proud history in science, politics, music, arts and sport. Discover the city’s heritage and how it has grown to be the progressive hub it is today with a 90 minute bus tour.
The 15 stop hop-on hop-off tour has been carefully planned to take you round some of Manchester’s key sights including Town Hall Manchester, National Football Museum, Museum of Science and Industry and Manchester United Football Club.
English commentary by Lord of the Rings and Lost actor Dominic Monaghan.
Your ticket is valid for 24 hours from time of purchase if on the bus or from the date chosen if online and you can board any Sightseeing Manchester branded bus during this time. There is one main tour route with recorded commentary in English. For other languages there is a free app which can be downloaded from the App Store and Google Play.
The weather tagline on Manchester radio station Key 103FM introduces the forecast for 'the greatest city in the world'. It's a ridiculous bit of local hyperbole, but behind the bluster Mancunians both native-born and imported are convinced they live in a pretty fabulous city. A rich blend of history and culture is on show in its museums, galleries and art centres, but what makes Manchester really fun is the swirl of hedonism that lets you dine, drink and dance yourself into happy oblivion.
The uncrowned capital of the north is also the driving force of the Northern Powerhouse, a government programme of investment and development that looks to corral northern England's 15 million people into a collective force to rival London and the southeast. As a result, the city centre looks like a construction site, with a host of new buildings rising up from streets that are being dug up so as to lay down miles of new tram line. The city of the future is being built today.

