The Latvian capital, the largest city in the Baltics, is a fascinating mixture of proud Latvian tradition and influences of the various countries that have occupied it. Independent once again since 1991, Riga's Art Nouveau center has won it UNESCO World Heritage Site designation. Opened up to mass tourism with the advent of budget air travel, Riga's Old City and its abundance of bars and restaurants can be explored on foot. The New Town is easily reached by an efficient and modern bus and tram network. 
Top-rated Riga Things to Do 5,626 Reviews Old City Riga (Vecriga)Neighborhoods1,237 Reviews Alberta IelaArchitectural Buildings342 Reviews Jugenda Stila NamiArchitectural BuildingsBrowse all things to do  
Good to knowRiga – a brief overviewSince Latvia regained independence 23 years ago, its capital Riga has undergone a remarkable transformation. The once dour Soviet capital has blossomed into a real shining light of the Baltic region. Two distinct halves characterise Riga’s centre: the west is a charming medieval Old Town filled with cobbled streets and wandering tourists, while the east is the real living centre, with a charming, almost Parisian district, abound with stunning art nouveau architecture. All told, this is a friendly, welcoming place with a youthful buzz that will both inspire and excite all who visit.   Flight and accommodation          Book now – Riga      Share article  
Old Town Museum of the Occupation of Latvia 1940-1991 Open-Air Ethnographic Museum St Peter's Church House of the Blackheads Barricades Museum Art Nouveau Museum Riga Cathedral Freedom Monument Pilsetas park and canals 
The Gothic spires that dominate Riga's cityscape might suggest austerity, but it is the flamboyant art nouveau that forms the flesh 
and the spirit of this vibrant cosmopolitan city, the largest of all three Baltic capitals. Like all northerners, it is quiet and reserved
on the outside, but there is some powerful chemistry going on inside its hip bars, modern art centres, and in the kitchens of its cool experimental restaurants. Standing next to a gulf named after itself, Riga is a short drive from jet-setting sea resort, Jurmala, which comes with a stunning white-sand beach. But if you are craving solitude and a pristine environment, gorgeous sea dunes and blueberry-filled forests, begin right outside the city boundaries.
